== Status ==
{| class="wikitable" border="1" valign="top"
|-
| Who || DONE || TODO || BLOCKED || DISCUSS
|-
| [[User:Anders Gustafsson | anders]]
|
* merged some stuff
* cleaned up GME
* vis stuff
|
* finish vis merge
* [[Summer of Code 2008|GSoC]]
|
| blockers in [[User:nesciens|nesciens]]' sqlite optimizations branch
|-
|[[Daniel Chokola | puzzles]]
|
| propdict#inspect
|
|
|-
|[[User:ypnos|FoPref]]
| up-to-date vis stuff in my tree
| work on the vis TODO
| 
| vis client disconnect handling
|-
|[[User:rafl|rafl]]
| <mantis>1937></mantis>
|
| making it user-configurable
|
|}

== Topics ==
=== GSoC ===
;Action: deferred
;Notes: still no money

=== Waf ===
;Action: deferred
;Notes:
* Java ''still'' not supported
* some minor feature requests and tools missing
* needs clear list of what's missing

=== Clients Progress ===
;Action: none
;Notes:
* Esperanza patched to use xmmsclient++ refactor
* X4X stuck with Waf/Java integration

=== XMMS2-Juhovh ===
;Action: merge into DrJekyll after TODO is DONE
;Notes:
* gapless support \o/
* data being passed between xforms needs a clean solution

=== Collections Language Bindings ===
;Action: none
; Notes:
* Ruby still needs collections support and is missing a few bindings
* Java works, except with Waf
* Python has a few bugs and needs documentation

== Full Transcript ==
A full transcript is available off-site [http://dan.chokola.com/files/xmms2-meeting/2007-01-22/transcript.txt here].

[[Category:IRC Meeting]]