= Proposal for definitions of nomenclature, to avoid confusion =

; Property
: A property is a field-key combination used to specify something. E.g. the title of a song.

; Media
: Media are the atomic entities that are part of the media library, typically a song or stream.
: Media can have properties, such as titles, durations, etc.

; Mediaset
: A mediaset is an abstract structure containing a number of media. I.e. it is a container for media.
: A mediaset is the result/output of an operator

; Operand
: An operand is a mediaset used by an operator.

; Attribute
: An attribute is a field-key combination, modifying the behaviour of an operator.
: An attribute can be called a 'property' of an operator

; Operator
: An operator is the concrete representation of an operation. 
: An operator always results in a mediaset.
: An operator can have operands (if applicable).
: An operator can have attributes.

; DAG
: Operators can have operands. Operands are mediasets. Mediasets are results of operators. Hence: Operators can use results from other operators. So: operators can be organized in a tree structure. This structure is also called a DAG ([http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Directed_acyclic_graph Directed Acyclic Graph]). In this DAG the operators are the nodes or vertices and the mediasets that are transferred between these nodes are the edges.

; Medialist
: A medialist is an ordered mediaset.

; Collection
: Collection is identical to mediaset.

[[User:Nesciens|Nesciens]] 17:02, 7 December 2006 (CET)


* A property (resp. attribute) is a field-key combination '''attached to a media (resp. collection operator)'''  to specify [...]
* ''An attribute can be called a 'property' of an operator''
Confusing, better separate the terms cleanly.

* ''An operand is a mediaset used '''as the input of''' an operator.''

* ''An operator always results in a mediaset.''
Confusing, it does not intuitively imply that some operators produce medialists.

* ''So: operators can be organized in a '''tree''' structure.''
'''graph''' structure (see examples)

* ''Collection is identical to mediaset.''
''identical'' is confusing I think. See [[Collections_Concept#Formal_definition_of_a_Collection]].

Good work!

[[User:Theefer|Theefer]] 18:15, 8 December 2006 (CET)


* ''Confusing, better separate the terms cleanly.''
In the API 'attribute' is used for operators, but 'property' for media. In [[Collections_Concept]] 'property' is used... I'd prefer to use the vocabulary of the API, but since [[Collections_Concept]] uses 'property', I wanted to reflect the relation between these two words. Maybe I should explicitely mention the API, but this page about the ''concept'', so I am not sure if that would be appropiate.

* ''Confusing, it does not intuitively imply that some operators produce medialists.''
In my perception a medialist is a kind of mediaset. Rephrased: "An operator always results in a mediaset '''(which can be a medialist)'''."

* '' '''graph''' structure (see examples)''
The word 'tree' was meant as a simplification; a tree is an acyclic graph, which can be directed (superset of a DAP), or undirected.

* '' ''identical'' is confusing I think. See [[Collections_Concept#Formal_definition_of_a_Collection]].''
The word 'collection' is confusing (because it is so generic), so I attempted to give it a stricter meaning. Either way, I think the use of this word should minimalized.

Thanks for reading and commenting on my humble perception on collections!

[[User:Nesciens|Nesciens]] 22:52, 8 December 2006 (CET)