 16:41 < anders> client/override/x2tagger btw.. Shouldn't it be client/override? 
                Because it should preferable be displayed by all clients, 
                instead of non overridden, and if one only wants to change info 
                in medialib without commiting it to files it actually has 
                nothing to do with x2tagger..
 16:42 < DraX> the way i saw it was that client/override was only displayed by 
              clients
 16:42 < DraX> and client/override/* would also be displayed by clients
 16:42 < DraX> but it could by for specific purposes
 16:42 < DraX> s/purposes/clients/
 16:42 < DraX> so that you can make a distinction in some cases
 16:43 < anders> Have you considered the alternative of telling x2tagger which 
                source to pick up tags from instead? Being able to tell 
                x2tagger to write tags from "client/promoe"
 16:44 < DraX> hmm
 16:44 < DraX> that's not too bad an idea
 16:44 < DraX> that's probably better actually
 16:45 < DraX> but it does add a little complexity in that you have to specify 
              which source to read from
 16:45 < DraX> extra configval i guess
 16:46 < DraX> how do you envison client/override then?
 16:46 < DraX> just as local overrides, or?
 16:47 < anders> client/override might not be needed at all.
 16:48 < DraX> well the reason i tohught it was a good idea
 16:48 < DraX> was to consolidate the overriding into one source preference
 16:48 < DraX> since we don't really want to put client/* as the first source 
              preference
 16:49 < anders> No, we have client/myself,client/*
 16:50 < DraX> still that seems like it could be problematic
 16:51 < DraX> for example your client supports ratings but does not have 
              ratings set for a song
 16:51 < DraX> another client you use also supports ratings
 16:51 < DraX> but does them in a different way
 16:51 < DraX> so you're getitng weird rating scores in your client
 16:51 < anders> Then it should lookup by exact source anyway.
 16:52 < DraX> true i suppose
 16:52 < DraX> but we're all a bit lazy ;)
 16:53 < DraX> ok, well what if i have the L33TSpEaK client installed 
 16:54 < DraX> and it l33tspeakifies all my properties in its own source
 16:54 < DraX> and since the client i'm using at the moment doesn't have its own 
              overrides
 16:54 < DraX> everything is in l33tspeak in the first client
 16:54 < DraX> (don't ask me why this client would ever exist or why anyone 
              would ever install it please)
 16:54 < DraX> :D
 16:59 < anders> Still not convinced :) But you were thinking about something 
                like: client/self:client/override:server:plugin/*:client/* 
                then? That would be the same without override 
                client/self:server:plugin/*:client/*
 17:00 < DraX> weren't you suggestion client/self:client/*:server:plugin/* ?
 17:00 < DraX> s/suggestion/suggesting/
 17:01 < anders> Yes :)  but to solve the "don't show l33tspeak" client/* would 
                need to be last, and then it doesn't matter if it is with or 
                without a client/override :)
 17:01 < DraX> see, my desire for client/override is basically that i think you 
              should be able to get overrides from any client if you want them, 
              but not if you don't (without necessairly knowing about the 
              semantics of sources)
 17:01 < DraX> the only example we have of an override client right now
 17:01 < DraX> is client/x2digitalgunfire
 17:02 < anders> whatis?
 17:02 < DraX> if you're listening to digitalgunfire radio stream
 17:02 < DraX> it reads extra metadata (album, artist, title, albumcover) from 
              the popup player
 17:02 < DraX> on the digitalgunfire website
 17:02 < DraX> and writes that to the medialib
 17:02 < DraX> so you get complete metadata when listening to digitalgunfire 
              instead of just artist - title in the title property
 17:03 < anders> Cool.
 17:03 < DraX> yes, and it's easilly extendable to other radiostations
 17:03 < anders> But that will be correct with 
                client/self:client/*:server:plugin/* no?
 17:03 < DraX> all the digitalgunfire specific stuff is in a seperate class
 17:03 < DraX> yes
 17:03 < DraX> but l33tspeak client would fuck things up with 
              client/self:client/*:server:plugin/* 
 17:04 < anders> Well, if someone wants a l33tspeak client it would probably 
                want to display it in l33tspeakt too.. So then that is the 
                right thing..
 17:05 < DraX> l33tspeak is a bad example
 17:05 < DraX> but i imagine other examples will arise
 17:05 < DraX> when we start to see clients doing overrides
 17:05 < anders> But what client would want to override something and _not_ 
                having it displayed?
 17:06 < DraX> the only example i can think of at the moment is joke clients, 
              but i imagine there have to be others
 17:08 < DraX> but yeah
 17:09 < DraX> admittedly, i can't really think of any at the moment
 17:09 < DraX> anyone else? :)
 17:11 < anders> And I envision that clients will allow specifing custom source 
                preferences anyway.

== Scaling up ==

Why shouldn't a client scale an image up? Or is it just a matter of not writing the scaled up image to the medialib?

== Should be updated ==
The section on cover art is out of date. These days actual image data can be stored using the bindata API. Such cover art is referred to using a hash and not an url. Property "picture_front" is in use for this. Maybe other properties too?