== Song Format ==
What will the new CLI do about that lame song format string that is all but ignored now? Get rid of it completely (does anyone ever change it?) or implement something more powerful, with conditionals?
--[[User:Puzzles|Puzz]] 15:34, 21 June 2007 (CEST)

I will still be present as a flag and/or config value. As for conditionals, feel free to hack :-)
--[[User:Theefer|Theefer]] 15:37, 21 June 2007 (CEST)

The current code is completely wrong, so it really shouldn't remain. I don't think I feel up to the task of writing a conditional parser in C since there are prepubescent girls more adept at C than me, but I will certainly hack on one of the following:
* Taking it out completely and leaving sane defaults (which is mostly what's done already).
* Taking it out completely with sane defaults and a few configuration properties:
** show title before artist
** show album
** show channel on streams
* A dumbed-down set of conditionals

== List Patterns ==

"If a pattern is given, contents are further filtered and only the matching media are displayed."

I'd like to see line item matching.

Examples:
* xmms2 list
** all items in playlist
* xmms2 list 10-
** all items starting from the 11th and onward to the end
* xmms2 list -20
** all items from the start until the 21st

and of course, literal ranging ( xmms2 list 10-20 = only the middle 10 items ).

It may be worth it to stop using 0 in playlists... [[User:VxJasonxV|VxJasonxV]] 04:30, 23 June 2007 (CEST)


Yes I agree. In fact I already planned to support this, and to start the playlist at position 1.

One other pattern feature you might want to feel horny about is:

* xmms2 list _5
** list current item and its five successors
* xmms2 list 3_10
** list current item, as well as its three predecessors and ten successors

--[[User:Theefer|Theefer]] 06:33, 23 June 2007 (CEST)

Of course, being a Ruby guy, I'd love to see 1..2 and 3..-1, and that might compromise the silly - vs _ quarrel. ;)
--[[User:Puzzles|Puzz]] 06:41, 23 June 2007 (CEST)