==New Features==
* Alexander Botero-Lowry:
** Added man pages. {{Bug|272}}
** NetBSD support {{Bug|225}}
* Alexander Rigbo:
** Add xmmsc_medialib_playlists_list command. {{Bug|229}}
** Added clientlib function to delete a playlist. {{Bug|221}}
* Magnus Bjernstad:
** translate numeric genres to names. {{Bug|237}}
** Added medialib_path_import to PythonAPI {{Bug|240}}
** Added medialib_get_id to PythonAPI {{Bug|240}}
** added playlist_remove to PythonAPI {{Bug|240}}
** Added playlists_list command. {{Bug|240}}
** Add configval_register to python bindings {{Bug|232}}
* Tilman Sauerbeck:
** Updated to new xmmsclient API. Removed typed methods to retrieve result value, use Result#value instead. {{Bug|235}}
* Tobias Rundstrom:
** Added medialib_playlist_loaded method to Python. {{Bug|280}}
** Added medialib_playlist_loaded signal. {{Bug|280}}
** Added a command in the cli for instant loading of playlists. {{Bug|220}}
** Added support for integers in medialib. {{Bug|254}}
** Report bitrate in bps instead of kbps. {{Bug|246}}
** Updated Python bindings to new list / dict API. {{Bug|235}}
** Make lists and dicts able to carry ints as well as strings in the same resultset. {{Bug|235}}
* Tuure Laurinolli:
** Partial windows support for clientlib {{Bug|116}}
* Vegard Nossum:
** Added new URL parser that also supports IPv6 {{Bug|245}}
==Bugs fixed==
* Alexander Botero-Lowry:
** Use the correct symbol in ossaudio-test. {{Bug|288}}
** Added a flush command in the OSS driver to fix sampleformat changes. {{Bug|248}}
** Make it build on OpenBSD. {{Bug|214}}
* Anders Gustafsson:
** Fix to UCS2 encoded text frames in id3v2.2/2.3 {{Bug|290}}
** Don't steal another xmms2d's ipc unix-socket. {{Bug|283}}
** Fix get_mediainfo in flac by actually using mode flag in init. {{Bug|258}}
** Give startup/shutdown.d-scripts full environment. {{Bug|285}}
** Call init in decoders before get_mediainfo, mode arg to init. {{Bug|128}}
* Ma Xuan:
** Make sure that ringbuffer data is correct after seeking. {{Bug|243}}
* Michael Lindgren:
** Better errorhandling in html export command. {{Bug|222}}
* Sham Chukoury:
** Allow config file to be specified as command line option {{Bug|256}}
** Fix output.plugin config property not registered when plugin specified on cmd line {{Bug|253}}
** Fix log init sequence, remove unused log regexp {{Bug|234}}
* Tilman Sauerbeck:
** Updated Wave plugin to new decoder plugin API. {{Bug|128}}
* Tobias Rundstrom:
** Add 64bytes ints on file operations. {{Bug|270}}
** Remove EXTINFO parser from m3u plugin since it often gives us bad data. {{Bug|262}}
** Fixed some strange things in ipc layer that could cause busy-loops on disconnect. {{Bug|261}}
** Validate all strings inserted into DB to be UTF-8 {{Bug|265}}
** FIxed a bug in medialib that could return wild integers if property was not found.
** Fix position problems with sorting. {{Bug|264}}
** Bugfix output plugin configvalue. {{Bug|253}}
** Fixed a deadlock in the transport layer. {{Bug|233}}
** Fixed a stupid bug with config value changed signal. Changed from list to a dict. {{Bug|242}}
** g_direct_hash on string keys are *not* a good idea {{Bug|241}}
** xmms2d now handle long strings. {{Bug|228}}
** Fixed so that we signal before we quit if IPC failed. {{Bug|217}}
** SO_REUSEADDR was moved to a better place. {{Bug|226}}
** Better error handling in log functions. {{Bug|216}}
** Passing the environ to scons {{Bug|215}}
** Fix bug #189 by removing entries from the playlist that are not valid.
* Vegard Nossum:
** Fixed NULL strings to msg_put_string {{Bug|211}}

==Clientlib Changes==
* Tilman Sauerbeck:
** Properly sort the list that's returned by xmms_config_listvalues().
** Empty lists in results are now handled properly.
* Tobias Rundstrom:
** changed OUTPUT_STATUS_ to PLAYBACK_STATUS_
** removed xmmsc_result_get_playlistchange since this now is a dict
** added xmmsc_configval_register. Clients can now register configuration values.
** added get_id function to medialib. Returns id number for a URL
** add xmmsc_medialib_remove_entry that removes something from the medialib
* Tuure Laurinolli:
** added xmmsc_sqlite_prepare_string for correct sql escaping.
** Added query generators that can create select statements for multiple criterions.
==Other Changes==
* Daniel Pearson:
** PYTHON: Added syncronous proxy class for API
** PYTHON: Added output_status enum to API
** PYTHON: renamed hash to dict to be conformed with the rest of the API
** PYTHON: Exposed get_type() call
** PYTHON: Fixed problem with value() which didn't return hashtable.
* Daniel Svensson:
** CLI: Added sort command
** PLAYLIST: Added sorting functionality
** CLI: xmms2 mlib addpath now handles relative paths
* Heikki Orsila:
** PRIVATE: Various clientlib cleanups.
* Michael Lindgren:
** CURL: Fix some issues with broken streams and headers in HTTP stream plugin.
* Sham Chukoury:
** cli client: change mlib addall to mlib loadall, split cmd_mlib into smaller functions
* Tilman Sauerbeck:
** CLI:Fixed config file related memory leaks.
** CLI:Fixed the 'quit-msg' in 'xmms2 status'
* Tobias Rundstrom:
** PLUGINMAJOR: Added versioning on plugins.
** changed argument to xmms functions to a callable instead of a class
** PYTHON: renamed python_loop() to loop() and made xmms argument to XMMSSync optional.
** CURL: fixed bug #209, set SSL_VERIFYPEER/HOST to 0
** PYTHON: added playlist_changed_actions_t as constants
** PRIVATE: changed OUTPUT_STATUS to PLAYBACK_STATUS
** RUBY: Removed playlist_changed
** PYTHON: removed playlist_changed
** PLAYLIST: changed playlist changed msg to a dict instead of a own type
** MAD: Cleaned up ID3v2 code and removed a strange bug with TXXX fields.
** CLI: add 'mlib queryadd' for wild querys that should be added to the playlist
** PYTHON: remove glib dependency. If you are using setup_with_gmain() in your python application you need to rework it. Example will be presented in due time.
** MEDIALIB: Fixed a quoting bug with xmmsc_medialib_add_to_playlist()
** PYTHON: clean-up and made pythonapi fully unicode aware
** MAD: Added support for ID3v2.4 tags.
** MAD: add warning if plugin not found!
* Tuure Laurinolli:
** CLI: Added mulitple selections for searchadd also
** CLI: Added multiple selections to xmms2 mlib select, closes bug #183
** PYTHON: changed HASHLIST to DICTLIST. old symbols.