this page should be turned into a more detailed info page about the cli client

[[User:Eleusis|Eleusis]] 21:49, 9 Feb 2005 (CET)


Information on how to use the Medialib would be much appreciated. The current example query is outdated and no longer produces any results (the database is apparently structured completely different, more flexibly). The following query for example will return all tracks by the artist 'Korn' together with their id's:

 select m2.value as title, m1.id as id from Media as m1, Media as m2 where m1.key='artist' and m1.value='Goo Goo Dolls' and m1.id=m2.id and m2.key='title

The following query should achive about the same results as the current example query ("select * from Media where artist = 'Korn' order by album"), but i don't know if there's an easier way of doing it:

 select m1.id as id, m2.value as title, m3.value as album from Media as m1, Media as m2, Media as m3 where m1.key='artist' and m1.value='Korn' and m1.id=m2.id and m2.key='title' and m1.id=m3.id and m3.key='album' order by m3.value

[kumakae] 11:51, 2 June 2005 (CEST)


----

I usually have a randomized playlist, and have to questions:

1. does xmms2d uses imms? I havent been able to find about it, but I remember it did
2. on the cli, I sometimes want to play a specific song, so I use the mlib to search for it, and check its id. Then I would think I could jump to that id (or to remove that id from the current playlist) but jump and remove work on the absolute position inside the playlist, so currently what I do is grep the list for /id and then jump to its position inside the playlist. Is there any easier way of doing it? or can/could mlib jump and play any arbitrary file in the database even if it's not in the current playlist?

[anonymous]


== Medialib searching ==
search, by default, displays the entries ordered by the internal id.  When I add for example the tracks in an album, however, I want to sort them in tracknumber order.  Is there any way of doing this besides doing a full sql query, or sorting the playlist afterwards (perhaps scrambling it)?  [[User:JoshuaRodman|JoshuaRodman]] 17:17, 13 October 2006 (CEST)