== Dr P ==
* Dr Poche (belgian comic hero by Wasterlain)

== Dr K ==
* Dr Kelso from Scrubs
* Dr Kosmos http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doktor_Kosmos

== Dr L ==
* Dr Lecter
* <juhovh> hmm, so we're not gonna make the release DrLivingstone, I presume?


== Dr I... ==
Here are some suggestions for DrI... (from nano)

* Dr. Ironstein, from the Flight of the Amazon Queen adventure game (1995)
* Dr. Ignatio Mobius, from the Command & Conquer series. It is worth noting that Dr. Mobius is a very strange, almost Archimedes Plutonium-like character in his first incarnation as portrayed by Richard Smith, becoming considerably more staid and less mad scientist when later portrayed by Rene Auberjonois
* Dr. Ira Graves was a Human molecular cyberneticist. Graves was believed to be one of the finest scientific minds of his time and was a recipient of the Zee-Magnees Prize. Graves claimed to have been a mentor to Doctor Noonien Soong, suggesting that made him "grandfather" to Soong's android creation, Data.

Add you suggestions here...

* DrILikeYourMedicine...
* Or pull a Leisure Suit Larry(4) / Winamp(4) and just skip DrI and go straight to DrJ because of the vast changes that generated ipc, collections and waf brings?
* Dr. Ironstein, from the Flight of the Amazon Queen adventure game (1995)
* Dr. Ignatio Mobius, from the Command & Conquer series. It is worth noting that Dr. Mobius is a very strange, almost Archimedes Plutonium-like character in his first incarnation as portrayed by Richard Smith, becoming considerably more staid and less mad scientist when later portrayed by Rene Auberjonois
* Dr. Ira Graves was a Human molecular cyberneticist. Graves was believed to be one of the finest scientific minds of his time and was a recipient of the Zee-Magnees Prize. Graves claimed to have been a mentor to Doctor Noonien Soong, suggesting that made him "grandfather" to Soong's android creation, Data.
-- Nano


* DrIlDottore (see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Il_Dottore) -[[User:Kbenoit]]
** Do you actually say Dr before "Il Dottore"? Wouldn't that be DrTheDoctor? [[User:Anders Gustafsson|Anders Gustafsson]]
*** According to babelfish yes, but I only checked on google translate. And I thought there were no suggestion at all. So we're probably better with one of the other propositions. [[User:Kbenoit]]

* DrIvel (see DrEvil...) -[[User:tmske]]

------

Based off "The not yet released ones are ofcourse up for discussion", here's my go:<br>
I was kinda hoping for Dr Doom.<br>
And I can't believe there's no e... Dr Evil!!!<br>
<br>
And uhhh, I guess that's all I can think of for now.<br>
[[User:VxJasonxV|VxJasonxV]] 13:10, 6 Mar 2006 (CET)

Why not use the original codenames?
* "A big piece of garbage"
* "Birbot of IceCatraz"
* "That's Lobstertainment!"
* "Space Pilot 3000"
* "War is the H-Word"
* "A Bicyclops Built For Two"
* "Insane in the Mainframe"

Hey, those are actually pretty cute... [[User:VxJasonxV|VxJasonxV]] 12:14, 19 April 2006 (CEST)

Original? Those are Futurama episodes. [[Dan Chokola]]

---

These can be useful:
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_fictional_doctors
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_fictional_physicians
[[User:Anders Gustafsson|Anders Gustafsson]]