* increase corporate profits.
** ..unless you are ubuntu or other commercial linux distributor

* clean your house.
** ..unless you hook it up with your emacs

* bring about [[Wikipedia:Wolrd Peace|world peace]].
** ...but it might learn you stop worrying and love the bomb?

* destroy [[Wikipedia:Microsoft|Microsoft]].
** ...

* play video.
** except the audio tracks.

* [[Wikipedia:Stargate SG-1|transport]] you to another [[Wikipedia:Stargate Atlantis|galaxy]].
** ...

* look good in [[screenshots]].
** ..unless you like pure text

* make the Internet free.
** ...

* turn your desktop into an animated [[Wikipedia:Xgl|3D cube]].
** ...

* give you a standard to commoditise upon.
** unless it becomes a standard to commoditise upon.

* [[Wikipedia:Steve Irwin|wrestle crocodiles]]
** ...crocodile wrestling is xmms1 only.

* make you live forever.
** ...unless you are mentioned in AUTHORS?

* come out of a shiny box and install itself in your heart forever.
** ...

* make you rich.
** ...unless you are a SoC student :)

* get you laid.
** ... unless you use it to play sensual music while dating a girl.

* make you famous.
** ... unless you're [[Sébastien Cevey]].

* break you out of [[Wikipedia:Prison Break|jail]].
** ...except when compiled by [[Wikipedia:Frank Morris|Frank Morris]], or [[Wikipedia:John Anglin|John]] and [[Wikipedia:Clarence Anglin|Clarence Anglin]].

* cure you of [[Wikipedia:AIDS|AIDS]], [[Wikipedia:Cancer|cancer]] or [[Wikipedia:Syphillis|syphillis]].
** ...

* give you free music.
** ... except for a [[Intro Clips|small sample]].

* give you superhuman strength.
** ...unless you compile it with [[Wikipedia:Kryptonite|-fuse-kryptonite]]