== DrM ==
* Feature freeze on 2009-01-01
* Whatever is then in devel makes it.

== Tools ==

=== Buildbot ===
* is online
* '''slaves esp 64-bit and win32 wanted'''
** nano believes he can provide one at work soon.
** mingw easy to setup if master.cfg available
* continue off-meeting

=== g.x.s/merge ===
* code at git.0x63.nu
* Anders has stuff for replacement and is already implementing it, will write down his plans.
* theefer looks at for other review stuff
* updater currently runs out of anders' cron, so patches need to go through him.
* nano will help out with g.x.s/merge

=== Mantis-auto-rebasing-thing ===
* request for thing to automatically import patches from mantis into a special git tree.
* rebased every time devel changes (if fails: bugnote)
* theefer looks at mantis api for auto-rebaser
* nano will help out with auto-rebaser

=== Testing framework ===
* after waf-upgrade nano will dig into cunit-testing

=== Karma ===
* is online

== FOSDEM'09 ==
* attending nano: tru, tilman, rafl, nesciens.
* possibly attending: theefer, eleusis, puzzles, drax, anders
* tru does organizing.

== Merging of big features ==
* Anders:
** should be divided in small bits. If necessary history can be rewritten (as I understand it).
** waf-stuff can be merge is as a whole (because it is an external project)
** stuff should hit devel early (even if it means a little less review)
** no non-devel reference branch should be necessary
** Anders looks at g.x.s/merge daily on workdays. Small stuff is reviewed immediately.
** Buildbot makes him a bit more sloppy.

== Transcript ==
Available off-site: [http://sirius.cine7.net/tmp/xmms2-meeting-2008-12-07]