So you want to get on the XMMS2 love-boat? Just fill the following in and send it to soc@xmms.se! Note that you have to fill in the Google application first and then this. By filling this in you will have bigger chance of actually getting voted for.

* '''Have you contacted the XMMS2 mentor and discussed the project already? Note that we won't read the application until you answer YES on this question.'''
* '''Basics'''
** Just write a small introduction to yourself.
** State your preferred email address.
** Why do you want to participate in summer of code?
** What are you studying, subject, level and school?
* '''Experience'''
** What programs/software have you worked on before?
** Have you developed software in a team environment before? (As opposed to hacking on something on your own)
** '''Open Source'''
*** Are you already involved with any open source development? If yes, please describe the project and the scope of your involvement.
* '''Project'''
** Did you select a project from our list? In that case what project did you select?
** If you figured out a own project please describe the project and the scope.
** Why did you choose this project?
** What do you expect to gain from this project?
** What would make you stay in the xmms2-community after the conclusion of SOC
* '''Practically'''
** What tools do you usually use to develop code? / Are you familiar with any of the following tools?
*** Git
*** waf
** What programming languages are you fluent in?
** What spoken languages are you fluent in?
** What timezone do you live?
** Would you mind talking with your mentor on telephone / internet phone?
* '''Detailed answer''' (optional, but well developed answers highly regarded).
** Write a small essay (750-1000 words or more) explaining why you want to participate in an XMMS2 GSoC project. You can use the above questions as guides, but feel free to throw in more information if you feel it is relevant.
*** What is your perception of 'Open Source'? Briefly explain what you think of the whole 'Open Source' concept, how you discovered Open Source, what you expect to gain/experience by participating in an Open Source project. (Either separate answer, or as part of above mini-essay)
*** What motivates or inspires you to write programs/develop software?

== See Also ==
* [[Summer_of_Code_2006/Student_requirements]]