{{Newsitem| date=7 July 2006 WST (2006-07-07| author=[[Sham Chukoury]]| title=You're the best evil son an evil dad could ever ask for| text=Winter in Chile, tropical heat in Europe; wherever you are this new release comes as a cool breeze. The XMMS2 Team is happy to announce the release of [[Release:DrEvil | DrEvil]]. This monster of a release will bring the much expected [[Transforms]] concept and might crash your computer a few times due to the extensive changes. Please be aware that this should be considered as less stable then [[DrDoolittle]], so please use this release to help us find bugs in Transforms and port your plugins to the new API. Also this release fixes a lot of the problems that were around with the older architecthure, like gapless playback, FLACs getting played by the MAD plugin and so on.

We are now aiming for the next release which will include some of the [[Summer of Code 2006 | Summer of Code]] students' contributions.}}
{{Newsitem| date=25 May 2006 WST (2006-05-25)| author=[[Sham Chukoury]]| title=Summer of Code really begins| text=Hello World. The application and evaluation periods of SoC2006 are finally over and selected applicants can now start working on their awesome proposals. Here at XMMS2, we received about 50 proposals, which was quite surprising.. we were expecting something of the order of a dozen or so.. ;) In the end, it did come down to almost a dozen good-quality proposals fighting for our attention, but we could only accept five of them. So, for 2006, the XMMS2 SoC projects are (in no particular order):

* Support for DAAP
** '''Student''': Cole Thompson
** '''Mentor''': Tobias Rundström

* TurboX2 Release Engineering and Development
** '''Student''': Alexander Botero-Lowry
** '''Mentor''': Tobias Rundström

* [[Collections]]
** '''Student''': Sébastien Cevey
** '''Mentor''': Anders Gustafsson

* Support Apple Lossless Audio Codec (ALAC) and remote streaming to Airport Express in XMMS2
** '''Student''': Mohsin Patel
** '''Mentor''': Anders Gustafsson

* XMMS2 Test Framework
** '''Student''': Abdul Haseeb
** '''Mentor''': Sham Chukoury

The XMMS2 Team would like to thank all the students who applied and invite those who did not get accepted into SoC2006 to still make a contribution to XMMS2, if they're up to it.}}

{{Newsitem| date=3 May 2006 WST (2006-05-03)| author=[[Sham Chukoury]]| title=Summer of Code news| text=I have added a [[Summer of Code 2006#News | News]] section on the [[Summer of Code 2006]] page. If you're a student interested in contributing to XMMS2 for SoC 2006, please check the page regularly for updates!

p.s. Please note that our mailing list is currently down. If you need to contact us, do so on IRC: #xmms2 on Freenode, or e-mail ''eleusis@xmms.org''.}}

{{Newsitem|date=27 April 2006 WST (2006-04-27)| author=[[Sham Chukoury]]| title=XMMS2's Summer of Code| text=G'day folks. With Google's [http://code.google.com/summerofcode.html Summer of Code] returning this year, the XMMS2 team submitted a proposal to be a 'mentoring organisation'. <strike>Unfortunately, our proposal didn't make it through, but the proposed ideas are still here! If you're interested in some summer codin' fun (or winter codin' fun, for those of us in the other hemisphere), check out XMMS2's very own [[Summer of Code 2006]] ideas. ;)</strike>

Scratch that. Turns out we made it in after all! If you're a student, you might want to take a look at our [[Summer of Code 2006]] ideas page and consider sending in your application. ;)}}

{{Newsitem|date=27 March 2006 CLST (2006-03-27)| author=[[Tobias Rundström]]| title=Cute and cuddly| text=Holy handgranates! It's release time again! Much earlier than expected and much cooler than the critics claim! XMMS2 Team announces [[Release:DrDoolittle | Dr. Doolittle]]. This release is forged by the wormholes of Stargate, Swedish schlager music, Chilean beaches and a lament for a loved one. DrDoolittle is a minor-feature-addition and bug-fix release instead of the expected major-break-the-world release. We decided that enough critical fixes and small features were available to make a release. You can watch the new [[Roadmap]] in order to see what's going on with future releases.

Note that some of the API calls have been changed in this release (details in [[Release:DrDoolittle#Full_ChangeLog | full release notes]]) and clients need to be upgraded. The API breaking will (hopefully) stop when Dr. releases end.

XMMS2 Team would like to thank everyone involved in this release, your efforts are appreciated as always.}}

{{Newsitem|date=21 Febrary 2006 CLST (2006-02-21)| author=[[Tobias Rundström]]| title=So how's that coma going for ya there?| text=Good news everyone. New release from the XMMS2 Team. [[Release:DrCox | DrCox]] is a bugfix / regression release which focuses on stability and some smaller feature enhancements. All users are recommended to upgrade to DrCox. The XMMS2 community is still growing with new users and contributors, just like any opensource project your involvement is necessary to bring the project forward. Please join us on IRC or our Maillist to participate.

Source is available for download from [http://sf.net/projects/xmms2 sourceforge].

A heartwarm thanks goes out to all contributors, hang-arounds and fans.

Next release is [[Release:DrDoolittle|DrDoolittle]] which (despite the name) probably going to include some big changes.}}


{{Newsitem|date=13 January 2006 (2006-01-13)| author=[[User:Anders Gustafsson]]| title=The tiger took my family| text=Friday 13th is a good day for a release. [[Release:DrBombay|XMMS2 0.2 DrBombay]] has just been released! It is a bugfix release for [[Release:DrAlban|DrAlban]], and fixes a few annoyances. Source is available for download from [http://sf.net/projects/xmms2 sourceforge]. Debian packages will be available in a few days as usual.}}

{{Newsitem|date=18 December 2005 (2005-12-18) CET| author=[[Tobias Rundström]]| title=Hello XMMS2, tell me how you're doing!| text=Good news everyone! [[Release:DrAlban|XMMS2 0.2 DrAlban]] was just released! Long overdue and not really following our release often, release early scheme. To make up for this we have tons of features. Please visit the release page to get more information. Source is available at [http://sf.net/projects/xmms2 sourceforce] as usual. Debian packages will be available in a few days as usual.
}}

{{Newsitem|date=08 December 2005 (2005-12-08) WST| author=[[Sham Chukoury]]| title=Configuration file format changes| text=The configuration file format for ''xmms2d'' (''xmms2.conf'') was changed recently. However ''xmms2d'' will not automatically preserve your configuration settings - instead, it will revert to default settings and subsequently overwrite the configuration file. If you want to preserve your settings, try this command:

 sed -e "s/value/property/g" xmms2.conf>tmp;mv tmp xmms2.conf;

and add a 'version' attribute to the root ''<xmms>'' tag:

 <xmms version="0.02">
}}

{{Newsitem|date=05 December 2005 (2005-12-05) CET|author=[[Tobias Rundström]]|title=GFX artist needed!|text=XMMS2 project seeks a GFX / Web graphic artist. We need to lay down a graphic profile for everything XMMS2 related. Are you interested? Please [[About#Contact_info|contact]] us!
}}

===News tools===
* [[News Archive]]
* [[Template_talk:News | News posting guidelines, etc]]
* {{ed|News|news page}}