This is a quick guide on how to work on Esperanza with Git.


== Clone ==
 git clone git+ssh://git.xmms.se/xmms2/esperanza.git

this will create "esperanza" locally and you will have the default branch checked out.

== branches ==

Esperanza relies on branches, have one per version that is released. To inspect what branches that are present do

 git branch -r

that will list something like:

 origin/0.3
 origin/0.4
 origin/HEAD

the first part is the namespace, in this case origin. which denotes that these branches are on where you cloned them from.

To switch branch use the checkout command:

 git checkout origin/0.4

When switching branches it can be good to see where you are by doing

 git log

Git log will show you what changes you have there.

To start working with a specific branch it's recommended that you don't work in the remote branch. So let's create a local branch of the remote 0.4 branch.

 git checkout origin/0.4 #switch to 0.4
 git checkout -b 0.4

== other remote branches ==

if you want to add multiple remotes to your tree, for example the master tree, edit .git/config and add the following:
 
 [remote "main"]
 url = git.xmms.se:/xmms2/esperanza.git
 fetch = +refs/heads/*:refs/remotes/main/*

the string "main" here is optional, note that it's in two places, first what it should be called and then in what namespace it should end up.

to update a remote branch use the command

 git fetch main

this will update the "main" remote branch and you can do

 git branch -r

to view them. in this case you should have the lines:
 
 main/0.3
 main/0.4

in there.

== merge remotes ==

First off, git merge doesn't do what you think it will do :-) always use git pull when merging. if you want to merge the main/0.4 into your own 0.4 branch do the following

 git checkout 0.4 #make sure we are in the local branch
 git fetch main #update the remote branch
 git pull main 0.4 #merge it!