This page tries to collect the future of Esperanza. Please put new ideas in the "distant future" thing below and I will move it up. The &#10003; denotes that the function is implemented. See the 0.4 branch in the git tree.

== [http://git.xmms.se/?p=esperanza.git;a=shortlog;h=0.4 Version 0.4] ==
* &#10003; A shortcut to go to mini-mode. Because now you have to click on the icon to do that.
* &#10063; First time Wizard - A wizard that pops up the first time a user starts esperanza. It should handle some basic configuration of Esperanza and the server. Importing musicfiles, setting the unix path, asking if the user wants to see the server browser all times, if the colors are good (ignore desktop aware...) on linux. and so on.
** &#10003; add a skip wizard button? (done in esperanza-ephraim.git ([http://git.xmms.se/?p=esperanza-ephraim.git;a=commit;h=9c6a9b4852de0b790fe22ab38364500505f71ea7 part1]))
* &#10063; Rewrite playerwidget.cpp. This file is huge and does a lot of strange stuff. It should be split in smaller parts:
** &#10003; Shortcut handling should be splitted out and use QShortcut instead. (done in esperanza-ephraim.git ([http://git.xmms.se/?p=esperanza-ephraim.git;a=commit;h=9a400e38b5eb6065fbda405d11da01814389bee6 Part1], [http://git.xmms.se/?p=esperanza-ephraim.git;a=commit;h=b9076d772492eae65984e7c8897141c3ce6519bc Part2], [http://git.xmms.se/?p=esperanza-ephraim.git;a=commit;h=9ae5a266e836b64e721c292eeaf03f12660e815e Part3]))
** &#10003; Less direct access to the dialogs / other widgets. Rewrite to use more signals
** &#10063; When above is done the source should be reorganized so that dialogs and other windows are plugins to the main widget. It should register things like shortcuts and basic handling and then compile as a QPLUGIN, makes it easier to add new dialogs and not cludder playerwidget.cpp
*** &#10003; convert streamingdialog (done in esperanza-ephraim.git ([http://git.xmms.se/?p=esperanza-ephraim.git;a=commit;h=889b98e0442a2777cdf14a031c8057fa9f198ee8 part1]))
*** &#10003; convert the about dialog
*** &#10063; update and convert the jumptofiledialog
*** &#10063; make serverbrowser and firsttimewizard another type of dialog plugin that can be accessed in some other way. First we need to define that interface then write the small code needed.
*** &#10063; convert growl, systemtray, globalshortcut to plugins that doesn't have to be tied into the ui code. same here, define the interface and then write the code
*** &#10063; playlist buttons doesn't work
*** &#10063; shortcuts from dialogs doesn't work
* &#10063; Split preferences dialog into preference manager / dialog.
** &#10003; Write the manager
** &#10063; Write the dialog
* &#10063; Last.FM controls
** &#10063; Implement Last.FM: love/ban/skip in the main widget. Also add browsing to the streambrowser. make it pretty
* &#10063; Info dialog that can give Last.FM recommends / musicbrainz info and so on. Evolution of the last.fm dialog.
* &#10063; Make the medialib browser prettier
** &#10063; Animations when the medialib is shown?
* &#10003; closing the Esperanza window should not make the app quit, but minimize it to tray. perhaps this can be an option in the preferences dialog. (done in esperanza-ephraim.git ([http://git.xmms.se/?p=esperanza-ephraim.git;a=commit;h=79ff3476f2db8f0be4163a5f02f5588323e36673 Part1]))
* &#10003; no entry in windowlist when tray icon is active. (done in esperanza-ephraim.git ([http://git.xmms.se/?p=esperanza-ephraim.git;a=commit;h=f65b926cfd7730fc7917b6032d8aee2e49977405 Part1], [http://git.xmms.se/?p=esperanza-ephraim.git;a=commit;h=0b563bcdd2fb8b70f5b0b0f3e33f3f7cc83fc9de Part2]))
* &#10003; add a setting, where you can choose between single- or double-click on the trayicon to show respectively hide the playerwindow. (done in esperanza-ephraim.git ([http://git.xmms.se/?p=esperanza-ephraim.git;a=commit;h=2e9e95a993935f76b79cedeb6cbd058343b0850c Part1]))
* &#10003; add GlobalShortcut functionality for e.g. play <=> pause, next song, previous song (done in esperanza-ephraim.git ([http://git.xmms.se/?p=esperanza-ephraim.git;a=commit;h=34a7fd0c5f99bf297bb5aeb2777a15c3806bd608 Part1]))
* &#10003; global shortcut for show <=> hide window (done in esperanza-ephraim.git ([http://git.xmms.se/?p=esperanza-ephraim.git;a=commit;h=e50196162c098ec3bec4630cc5d45b09efc082e6 Part1]))

== Version 0.5 ==


== Distant Future / New Features ==
* When Esperanza is minimized to a bar(mini-mode), it's automaticly renamed to ''Esperanza <2>''. It would be a good idea to change the name back to Esperanza  after it's minimized to the bar.
* If the audio-file doesn't have an artist and title in it's meta-data, show the filename(with it's extension removed).
* If you click shuffle, don't shuffle the whole list, but instead jump to random places in the list, so that files from the same album are still together.
* If xmms2 daemon is executed by Esperanza, make Esperanza pop up a small-dialog when you quit, with the choice to also close xmms2 (xmms2 quit). Because it feels unintuitive to still hear music after you've closed the player.
* Seeking bar should be clickable to jump somewhere in the song. The information (like remaining time) shown on the seeking bar may be toggled by right clicking on the information shown.
* Being able to jump to a perticular time in a song by using a menu choice (for example: jump from 00:00(mm:ss) to 12:34), like in XMMS1.
* Add a "stop after this title" option (alike "no playlist advance" in xmms)
* Smoother drag&drop handling, esp. inside the playlist (it's very difficult here to get a song to the right place)
* tristate button or two different buttons for repeat-all and repeat-one setting of xmms2d
* preferences dialog for direct access to xmms2d settings (for advanced users)
* Add QScript support for customization of playlist and other elements.
* let the user set the time the systray informations about songchange should appear, e.g. -1 No Popup, 0 => infinite, 1sec .... 5min (just change the existing setting (enable/disable)).
* Add a class that can query amazon web services for album art. It should be done on the albums that are in the playlist (and don't have a cover) and should be added to xmms2d with the binary_get/set calls.
* Application Icon missing, make sure for any OS
* Make sure that the Connection code can handle disconnect, reconnect, connect to multiple and similar operations. Ideally we should be able to switch server without quiting esperanza and not have to relaunch it when it disconnects.
* make the playlist columns editable, add / remove items which can be shown in the context area of a playlistitem