* You need to be prepared to stay in regular contact with your mentor, via IRC or e-mail, and provide at least weekly status reports.
* You will be expected to, at the very least, have a basic grasp of the language(s) involved in your chosen task, and have a knowledge of using revision control systems such as CVS, SVN or Git.
* Include the following in your proposal ([http://wiki.creativecommons.org/Summer_of_Code_2006]):
** Detailed description / design document (including a list of deliverables)
** An approximate schedule (timeline)
** Brief description of past projects (including open source) that you've participated in
** Brief resume/bio/contact information
* Some more information that could be useful to us ([http://groups.google.com/group/Summer-Administrators-2006/msg/558001af3c9f8ffe]):
** How much time do you expect to have for this project?
** List of jobs, summer classes, and/or vacations that you'll need to work around
** Description of any experience you have with various programming and scripting languages, operating systems, and so on.
** Description of your usage experience/familiarity - or even development experience - with the project you are applying for.
** Did you participate in a 2005 Summer of Code project?  If so, please describe your project and experience.
** Details of your school/university/college enrollment: which institution, what your highest education level is so far, whether you're specialising or majoring in particular subjects..
** Why are you well suited to complete this project?

=== Proposal Example ===
For an example of what your proposal could look like, see [http://people.xmms2.org/~andersg/SoC_example.txt SoC_example.txt]. Make sure your proposal is correctly linewrapped to fit in 80 cols (as google's interface doesn't reflow text).

[[Category:Summer of Code 2006]]