There are a number of client programs currently being developed for use with XMMS2. Some of them are very simple and perform only a handful of functions, while others are more fully featured.

If you are a new XMMS2 client developer, you're welcome to add your client to the [[Clientlist | list] and drop by our [irc://chat.freenode.net/xmms2 IRC channel] to let us know what you're doing, so we may work closely together.
<br/>
'''See also''':
* [[Clientlist | A matrix of all available clients]]
* [[Contribs | Contributions to XMMS2, like shell scripts or keyboard bindings]]
* [[Talk:XMMS2_Clients#How_to_add_a_new_client | How to add a new client]]
* [[Writing XMMS2 Clients]]

'''Note:''' While most other players give you an 'all-in-one' experience, when it comes to XMMS2 it can be worthwile to have several different clients running at once. Features like desktop integration, on-screen displays, etc. are mostly done in several clients written esp. for this task. Just have a look around!

= Main Clients =

== Graphical Clients ==

== Web Clients ==

* [[Client:TurboX2 | TurboX2]] is a player accessible via your web browser

== Console Clients ==

* [[Client:XMMS2 CLI client | XMMS2 CLI client]] is the standard console application coming with XMMS2
* [[Client:nyello | nyello]] provides a powerfull pseudo-shell interface

= Desktop Integration =

== General ==

* [[Client:gx2ods | gx2osd]] shows playing information as an On-Screen Display
* [[Client:Camio | Camio]] is a small dock usable on every desktop
* [[Client:snett | snett]] provides a small icon with popup-menu

== Gnome ==

* [[Client:XMMS2tray | XMMS2tray]] provides integration into the tray
* [[Client:XMMSDeskbar | XMMSDeskbar]] works with the Gnome Deskbar

== KDE ==

== Others ==

* [[Client:LXMusic | LXMusic]] is a very simple player inside the LXDE environment

= Integration Into Other Applications =

== X-Chat / IRSSI ==

* '''X-Chat:''' [[Client:EkoXMMS2 | EkoXMMS2]] lets you control XMMS2 within the application
* '''irssi:''' Both [[Client:ixmms2 | ixmms2]] and [Client:xmms2Plugin | xmms2Plugin] provide information and control within irssi

== Audioscrobbler ==

* [[Client:XMMS2-Scrobbler | XMMS2-Scrobbler]] is an [http://www.audioscrobbler.com/ AudioScrobbler] client.

= Special Input Methods =

== Remote Control ==

* [[Client:lxmms2 | lxmms2]] lets you control XMMS2 with LIRC

== Mobile Phones ==

* [[Client:Harald | Harald]] uses JavaME and Bluetooth to be your music player on the phone