* '''Have you contacted an XMMS2 mentor and discussed the project already? Note that we won't read the application until you answer YES on this question.'''
** ''Yes - Talked with Tobias Rundström''
* '''Basics'''
** Just write a small introduction to yourself.
*** ''Hi, my name is Taylor Killian, and I love open source. I have been programming since I was 10, after I got my first computer. I got into program so I could be a hacker, not knowing that I was building myself a bright future as a programmer. From there I went off an learned a bunch of languages. I kept on taking on on challenge after another until I was was at the level of those I once looked up to, but realized I have a long way to go. But I'm not all computer all the time, I also like to wrestle and play Guitar Hero. And I guess thats a pretty good size 'small' intro.''
** State your preferred email address.
*** ''s7master@gmail.com''
** Why do you want to participate in summer of code?
*** ''I want to participate in the summer of code because I know it is going to be a challenge. I know I am going to have to work hard and long, but at the end I will be able to say that I was a part of something truly great. I know that I will be a better programmer for it too.''
** What are you studying, subject, level and school?
*** ''I am studying Computer Science and Engineering as a freshmen at [http://www.cscc.edu Columbus State Community College]''
* '''Experience'''
** What programs/software have you worked on before?
*** [http://projectxi.sf.net/ ProjectXI] - ''An open source game server''
*** [http://pxiweb.ffxilock.com/ PxiWeb] - ''Front end for ProjectXI''
*** [http://video.google.com/videoplay?docid=-7473028685931049643&q=sphere+parabola 3D Engine] - ''Unfinished/unreleased 3d engine''
** Have you developed software in a team environment before? (As opposed to hacking on something on your own)
*** ''Yes, but''
** Have you participated to the Google Summer of Code before? As a mentor or a student? In what project? Were you successful? If not, why?
** What development model would you use (e.g. keywords: V-model, XP programming, agile programming, iterative; with the help of prototyping, formal specifications, tests, etc).
** '''Open Source'''
*** Are you already involved with any open source development? If yes, please describe the project and the scope of your involvement.
* '''Project'''
** Did you select a project from our list? If that is the case, what project did you select?
** If you figured out a own project please describe the project and the scope.
** Why did you choose this project?
** What do you expect to gain from this project?
** What would make you stay in the xmms2-community after the conclusion of SOC?
* '''Practically'''
** Are you familiar with any of the following tools?
*** Git
*** waf
** Which tools do you normally use for development? Why do you use them?
** What programming languages are you fluent in?
** What spoken languages are you fluent in?
** At what hours are you awake (please specify in UTC)
** Would you mind talking with your mentor on telephone / internet phone?
* '''Detailed answer''' (optional, but well developed answers highly regarded).
** Write a small essay (750-1000 words or more) explaining why you want to participate in an XMMS2 GSoC project. You can use the above questions as guides, but feel free to throw in more information if you feel it is relevant.
*** What is your perception of 'Open Source'? Briefly explain what you think of the whole 'Open Source' concept, how you discovered Open Source, what you expect to gain/experience by participating in an Open Source project. (Either separate answer, or as part of above mini-essay)
*** What motivates or inspires you to write programs/develop software?