Quotes from 2006

=== 2006-11-21 - XMMS2 prayer ===
 <ccr> let us pray ... oh great xmms1, who has ascended to the great 
       beyond in Gentoo realm, give us our daily morons and whiners on 
       #xmms, and let us not go astray on the great path of Sarcasm.
 <ccr> and give us our patches to xmms2, your son, who will lead us to 
       new light
 <ccr> amen

=== 2006-11-19 - XMMS2 is spyware ===
 --> blackpenguin (n=nl@???) has joined #xmms2
 <blackpenguin> hi. I'm shocked. xmms2 is spyware? who the fuck do you think you
 are, that you can transmit data without asking first? I don't say anything
 against data-collection - if you *ask* your users first.
 <puzzles> blackpenguin: yeah, we're all terrible commercial spies
 <puzzles> i mean it's not like we clearly show our source or anything
 <puzzles> or document xmms2-et anywhere
 <Eclipser> blackpenguin, so sue us
 <puzzles> blackpenguin: and we definitely don't tell our users what kind of
 data we send
 <tilman> WHO THE FUCK DO YOU THINK WHO ARE
 <tilman> ahahaha
 <tilman> blackpenguin: i own your ass dude :P
 <blackpenguin> you do. but that does not change the fact, that you should do
 first, ask for agreement and transmit then. I cannot disable that "feature"
 without sending a UDP-package first.
 <Botje> blackpenguin: you downloaded a developer release. developer releases
 have tools to ease debugging. xmms2-et is one of them.
 <tilman> i NOW you played a EMM PEEE THREE last night
 <tilman> omg
 <tilman> omg omgomgg
 * tilman so shocked
 <tilman> :>
 <tilman> blackpenguin: sure you can
 <Eclipser> blackpenguin, kill the xmms2-et? :)
 <tilman> just delete the stupid xmms2-et app before firing up xmms2d o_O
 <puzzles> yeah, you really can disable it before you do anything
 <puzzles> or just delete the symlink in your ~/.config/xmms2/startup.d
 <theefer> blackpenguin: I think you made a typo, you meant to write “Could
 you make xmms2-et optional or prompt the user before enabling it?”.
 <VxJasonxV> a new application uses the internet
 <puzzles> and it won't be installed again on upgrade, either
 <VxJasonxV> QUICK IT'S A SPAMMER
 <VxJasonxV> KILL IT KILL IT
 <Botje> just to be sure, you should nullroute the test server.
 <Botje> and clean all ports it used with fire
 <puzzles> really, this is all documented in the wiki anyway, so we _do_ tell
 our users
 <blackpenguin> puzzles: correct - the problem about this is, that this file
 does not exist before I have started xmms2 - see where my problem is?
 <Eclipser> uh
 <VxJasonxV> xmms2 does not create the xmms2-et binary
 <puzzles> ...
 <VxJasonxV> xmms2-et is installed when everything else is
 <VxJasonxV> you can delete it WELL before starting xmms2
 <tilman> your problem is that like to go over  the top because of this one
 <blackpenguin> I knew it before I came here what you would say about this.
 well, I just wanted to let you know what I think about your behaviour. bye.
 and have fun with your new contract partner google. bye.
 <-- blackpenguin (n=nl@???) has left #xmms2

=== 2006-10-25 - Memory management and performance ===
 <danderson> I've also disabled garbage collection in the xmms2 build system, so the build is even faster
 <danderson> (though it does use a bit more space during the build, obviously)
 <danderson> (but the amount of extra ram is trivial, compared to the speed boost of not having to do
             garbage collection)
 <juhovh> yeah, just like I once heard a discussion of two people doing a C programming course
 <juhovh> it was something like "I never free any memory I have allocated" "me neither, I once did and it
          crashed the program"
 <danderson> hahaha
 <danderson> ouch
 <juhovh> (the amount of extra ram is trivial compared to learning how to do memory management)
 <danderson> it's slightly less drastic in this case :)

=== 2006-10-20 - Firefucks ===
 <eleusis> it's funny
 <eleusis> firefox -> firefucks
 <eleusis> yet the iceweasel is the one humping :P
 <juhovh> yeah, I can't stop liking the animated logo, it's kind of hypnotizing
 <juhovh> they should make the logo hump every time you're loading a website
 <k8to> yes
 <eleusis> hahaha
 <k8to> it would give new meaning to the term "throbber"
 <juhovh> I wouldn't use other browsers then

=== 2006-09-02 - She said yes! ===
 <tru> lisa just agreed that I could install ubuntu on her computer!
 <theefer> tru: you geek
 <theefer> "she said yes!"
 <tru> ahaha.
 <nano> how romantic
 <nano> i hope my gf starts using ubuntu some day. 
 <nano> ;)

=== 2006-08-31 - Visual timer ftw ===
 <braeuni> i love it
 <braeuni> stefan@core:~$ sleep 1500 && eog lasagne.jpg
 ...
 <VxJasonxV> is it like a dirty picture or something?
 <VxJasonxV> wait 15 seconds (leave the room) and it'll pop up on it's own and fuck with someone?
 <braeuni> it's a pic of a lasagne?
 <VxJasonxV> filenames can be decieving :P
 <VxJasonxV> what's the point of the sleep then?
 <eleusis> o_O
 <VxJasonxV> (side question: is lasagne the same thing as lasagna?)
 <VxJasonxV> I might me missing something :P
 <braeuni> yes it's the same
 <VxJasonxV> ok
 <VxJasonxV> so then
 <VxJasonxV> what's with the sleep?
 <braeuni> it reminds me that i've to take it out of the oven ^^

=== 2006-08-28 - Brainhax ===
 <juhovh> oh shit
 <juhovh> http://www.mobihand.com/product.asp?id=5998
 <juhovh> someone is selling my software for 10 dollars...
 <juhovh> and it's GPL
 <eleusis> so?
 <juhovh> I don't see the source
 <juhovh> and all references to me are edited away
 <eleusis> smite them!
 <juhovh> should apparently
 <eleusis> you sure it's yours? :)
 <sacarasc> you sure its yours?
 <sacarasc> lol
 <eleusis> sacarasc++
 <sacarasc> GET OUT OF MY BRAIN!
 ...
 <eleusis> maybe they're not violating the gpl directly
 <juhovh> I just wonder how to do that in Finland
 <sacarasc> middle person passing it off as his own?
 <eleusis> maybe some other noob decided to remove the licence & copyright info and stamp his own name on
 <juhovh> oh well, have to send some emails first
 <eleusis> GET OUT OF MY BRAIN
 <sacarasc> GET OUT OF MY BRAIN!
 <eleusis> dammit :D
 <sacarasc> AAAAARGHH!
 <juhovh> you two are so cute

=== 2006-08-10 - Rembember, remember the 10th of August ===
 18:13 <free-zombie> nano's patch works.
 18:13 <tilman> HOHOHO
 18:13 <tilman> nano's patch works!
 18:14 <tilman> mark the day in your calendar!

=== 2006-08-10 - waitress/programmer/astronaut/whatever ===
 [15:28:08][tilman]: TABS FOR INDENT SPACES FOR ALIGNMENT
 [15:28:12][tilman]: REPEAT AFTER ME
 [15:28:28][eleusis]: TABS FOR INDENT, SPACES FOR ALIGNMENT
 [15:29:25][xkr47]: TABS FOR RESTAURANTS, SPACES FOR ASTRONAUTS

=== 2006-08-09 - o_O ===
 [23:14:31]::: ghjk [n=cxv@213.244.119.252] has joined #xmms2
 [23:14:38][ghjk]: hi
 [23:15:03][ghjk]: any one have information about mssc
 [23:15:14][ghjk]: or mms7
 [23:15:16][tru]: mssc?
 [23:15:23][tru]: Ok?
 [23:16:28][ghjk]: i am building wap site for my self
 [23:16:49][tru]: sorry. but what does this have to do with xmms2?
 [23:16:58][ghjk]: how can i charge the clients when they downloads mms
 [23:17:36][ghjk]: ok bye
 [23:18:16]::: ghjk [n=cxv@213.244.119.252] has left #xmms2 []

=== 2006-07-07 - I can dance all day! ===

 * Eclipser 'll be semi-inactive
 <Eclipser> me and my friends started a remake of speedball2
 <tilman> so you won't dance all day now?
 <tilman> ;D
 <eleusis> lol
 <Eclipser> tilman, my leg broke
 <eleusis> o_O
 <arachnist> Eclipser just noticed that the project is going to have a new slave-monkey ;>
 <tilman> oh shit
 <Eclipser> I can't even walk properly
 <eleusis> broke your leg while dancing?
 <Eclipser> eleusis, yep
 <tilman> Eclipser: not from too much dancing hopefullyy?
 <tilman> omg
 <eleusis> GRIME
 <tilman> i must say that's a bit funny
 <tilman> :D
 <eleusis> :D

=== 2006-05-03 - Success! ===
 [08:14:51][xkr47]: I used xmms and while it was great and all it sucked in many
           ways and thus I so many times went out looking for alternatives
           without finding anything even remotely covering what xmms could do..
           but then I found xmms2 and somehow, yes, the scandinavian core team
           helped convince me that it would have a possibility to beat xmms :)
 [08:15:50][xkr47]: I think xmms2 has all the right things in the right place..
           the developers together with the wiki and all other tools form like a
           perfect machinery
 [08:16:29][xkr47]: it's a joy joining an effort like that
 [08:16:56][xkr47]: I have converted all my tools for xmms to xmms2 already
 [08:17:21][xkr47]: so now I have identical cli tools to manipulate playlists,
           categorize songs, control it with my "ati remote wonder" remote
           control


=== 2006-04-29 - Incorrectly gapfull ===

 <tilman> HAHAHAHA
 <tilman> i think xforms+vorbis is much less gapless than the old stuff
 <tilman> :D
 <tilman> "more gapfull" ._o
 <juhovh> really?
 <tilman> yes
 ...
 <tilman> i should write down that these two tracks are quite good for testing gaplessness
 ...
 <tilman> wait.
 <tilman> i didn't play track1+track2, i played track1+track8
 <eleusis> LOL
 <tilman> so it's not surprising it seemed gapfull

=== 2006-03-27 - Digital Prison Break ===
 <ScytheBlade1> I think you guys would be proud
 <ScytheBlade1> I spent the day at a local university friday
 <ScytheBlade1> To get internet, they wanted a student login
 <ScytheBlade1> After 30 minutes of poking, I tunneled a VPN through :53/udp @ 2MB/sec
 <ScytheBlade1> .... to get a copy of xmms2 on a friend's laptop ;)
 <eleusis>      LOL
 <eleusis>      digital prison break
 <puzzles>      :D
 <ScytheBlade1> He stared at me blankly
 <ScytheBlade1> "xmms2? You went through all of that effort... for xmms2?"

=== 2006-03-11 - XMMS2, music, booze and sex ===
 <DraX>    i feel like coding :)
 <tru>     do it!
 <puzzles> yes
 <puzzles> while other students are getting wasted, listening to loud music,
           and having sex, you sit home and code away
 <tru>     it's like 2 here.
 <puzzles> because, in the end, XMMS2 is what brings in the booze and sex,
           and plays the loud music
 <tru>     puzzles: wasted is overratedand sex has bad consequeces.
 <tru>     :D
 <puzzles> i don't like you since your revelation

=== 2006-03-01 - Speak yoda with me you dirty hacker ===
 19:36 <anders_> puzzles: The magic stuff is changed with xforms.
 19:37 <puzzles> anders_: in yoda-speak, say it
 19:37 <anders_> puzzles: With xform magic stuff changed is.

=== 2006-03-01 - IKEA, thank you very much ===
 16:12 <puzzles> well ikea to you, too, __filip_
 16:12 <juhovh> ikea?
 16:13 <puzzles> isn't that how you say "hello" in swedish?

=== 2006-02-05 - Sure I can help ===
 15:42 <univac> puzzles: ruby has 'sys.byteorder' - from python?
 15:44 <tilman> are you the hero of stupid questions?
 15:44 <tilman> a) puzzles doesn't know jack shit about python
 15:44 <tilman> b) wtf?
 15:44 <tilman> c) olol
 15:44 <univac> :|
 15:44 <tilman> d) #ruby-lang :)
 15:46 <eleusis> heh
 15:46 <tilman> oh
 15:46 <tilman> and for a helpful answer:
 15:46 <tilman> e) ri Array#pack resp ri String#unpack

=== 2006-01-10 - Of Holographic Storage and Pr0n ===
 [19:07] <puzzles> http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Holographic_Versatile_Disc
 [19:07] <deadchip> Nintendo's Gamecube cannot play DVDs but uses a modified DVD for its game media.
 [19:07] <deadchip> o_O
 [19:07] <deadchip> puzzles: www.inphase-technologies.com
 [19:08] <deadchip> HVD is bullshit, inphase has made this real already
 [19:09] <deadchip> oh well they have too many companies in there for HVD being bullshit
 [19:09] <puzzles> These disks have the capacity to hold up to 3.9 terabytes (TB) of information, which is approximately 160 times the capacity of single-layer Blu-ray Discs.
 [19:09] <deadchip> but InPhase has it already
 [19:09] <puzzles> i just wet myself
 [19:09] <deadchip> mhah
 [19:09] <deadchip> the InPhase media have 200TB storage capacity
 [19:09] <deadchip> o_O
 [19:09] <puzzles> yeah i've read about the inphase stuff
 [19:09] <puzzles> that's cool too
 [19:09] <deadchip> LOL "cool too"
 [19:09] <theefer> who needs that much storage anyway? pointless.
 [19:10] <deadchip> "He who has the least pr0n throw the first stone."