{{Navbar}}

== Latest quotes ==

=== 2006-08-10 - waitress/programmer/astronaut/whatever ===
[15:28:08][tilman]: TABS FOR INDENT SPACES FOR ALIGNMENT
[15:28:12][tilman]: REPEAT AFTER ME
[15:28:28][eleusis]: TABS FOR INDENT, SPACES FOR ALIGNMENT
[15:29:25][xkr47]: TABS FOR RESTAURANTS, SPACES FOR ASTRONAUTS

=== 2006-08-09 - o_O ===
 [23:14:31]::: ghjk [n=cxv@213.244.119.252] has joined #xmms2
 [23:14:38][ghjk]: hi
 [23:15:03][ghjk]: any one have information about mssc
 [23:15:14][ghjk]: or mms7
 [23:15:16][tru]: mssc?
 [23:15:23][tru]: Ok?
 [23:16:28][ghjk]: i am building wap site for my self
 [23:16:49][tru]: sorry. but what does this have to do with xmms2?
 [23:16:58][ghjk]: how can i charge the clients when they downloads mms
 [23:17:36][ghjk]: ok bye
 [23:18:16]::: ghjk [n=cxv@213.244.119.252] has left #xmms2 []

=== 2006-07-07 - I can dance all day! ===

 * Eclipser 'll be semi-inactive
 <Eclipser> me and my friends started a remake of speedball2
 <tilman> so you won't dance all day now?
 <tilman> ;D
 <eleusis> lol
 <Eclipser> tilman, my leg broke
 <eleusis> o_O
 <arachnist> Eclipser just noticed that the project is going to have a new slave-monkey ;>
 <tilman> oh shit
 <Eclipser> I can't even walk properly
 <eleusis> broke your leg while dancing?
 <Eclipser> eleusis, yep
 <tilman> Eclipser: not from too much dancing hopefullyy?
 <tilman> omg
 <eleusis> GRIME
 <tilman> i must say that's a bit funny
 <tilman> :D
 <eleusis> :D

=== 2006-05-03 - Success! ===
 [08:14:51][xkr47]: I used xmms and while it was great and all it sucked in many
           ways and thus I so many times went out looking for alternatives
           without finding anything even remotely covering what xmms could do..
           but then I found xmms2 and somehow, yes, the scandinavian core team
           helped convince me that it would have a possibility to beat xmms :)
 [08:15:50][xkr47]: I think xmms2 has all the right things in the right place..
           the developers together with the wiki and all other tools form like a
           perfect machinery
 [08:16:29][xkr47]: it's a joy joining an effort like that
 [08:16:56][xkr47]: I have converted all my tools for xmms to xmms2 already
 [08:17:21][xkr47]: so now I have identical cli tools to manipulate playlists,
           categorize songs, control it with my "ati remote wonder" remote
           control


=== 2006-04-29 - Incorrectly gapfull ===

 <tilman> HAHAHAHA
 <tilman> i think xforms+vorbis is much less gapless than the old stuff
 <tilman> :D
 <tilman> "more gapfull" ._o
 <juhovh> really?
 <tilman> yes
 ...
 <tilman> i should write down that these two tracks are quite good for testing gaplessness
 ...
 <tilman> wait.
 <tilman> i didn't play track1+track2, i played track1+track8
 <eleusis> LOL
 <tilman> so it's not surprising it seemed gapfull

=== 2006-03-27 - Digital Prison Break ===
 <ScytheBlade1> I think you guys would be proud
 <ScytheBlade1> I spent the day at a local university friday
 <ScytheBlade1> To get internet, they wanted a student login
 <ScytheBlade1> After 30 minutes of poking, I tunneled a VPN through :53/udp @ 2MB/sec
 <ScytheBlade1> .... to get a copy of xmms2 on a friend's laptop ;)
 <eleusis>      LOL
 <eleusis>      digital prison break
 <puzzles>      :D
 <ScytheBlade1> He stared at me blankly
 <ScytheBlade1> "xmms2? You went through all of that effort... for xmms2?"

=== 2006-03-11 - XMMS2, music, booze and sex ===
 <DraX>    i feel like coding :)
 <tru>     do it!
 <puzzles> yes
 <puzzles> while other students are getting wasted, listening to loud music,
           and having sex, you sit home and code away
 <tru>     it's like 2 here.
 <puzzles> because, in the end, XMMS2 is what brings in the booze and sex,
           and plays the loud music
 <tru>     puzzles: wasted is overratedand sex has bad consequeces.
 <tru>     :D
 <puzzles> i don't like you since your revelation

=== 2006-03-01 - Speak yoda with me you dirty hacker ===
 19:36 <anders_> puzzles: The magic stuff is changed with xforms.
 19:37 <puzzles> anders_: in yoda-speak, say it
 19:37 <anders_> puzzles: With xform magic stuff changed is.

=== 2006-03-01 - IKEA, thank you very much ===
 16:12 <puzzles> well ikea to you, too, __filip_
 16:12 <juhovh> ikea?
 16:13 <puzzles> isn't that how you say "hello" in swedish?

=== 2006-02-05 - Sure I can help ===
 15:42 <univac> puzzles: ruby has 'sys.byteorder' - from python?
 15:44 <tilman> are you the hero of stupid questions?
 15:44 <tilman> a) puzzles doesn't know jack shit about python
 15:44 <tilman> b) wtf?
 15:44 <tilman> c) olol
 15:44 <univac> :|
 15:44 <tilman> d) #ruby-lang :)
 15:46 <eleusis> heh
 15:46 <tilman> oh
 15:46 <tilman> and for a helpful answer:
 15:46 <tilman> e) ri Array#pack resp ri String#unpack

=== 2006-01-10 - Of Holographic Storage and Pr0n ===
 [19:07] <puzzles> http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Holographic_Versatile_Disc
 [19:07] <deadchip> Nintendo's Gamecube cannot play DVDs but uses a modified DVD for its game media.
 [19:07] <deadchip> o_O
 [19:07] <deadchip> puzzles: www.inphase-technologies.com
 [19:08] <deadchip> HVD is bullshit, inphase has made this real already
 [19:09] <deadchip> oh well they have too many companies in there for HVD being bullshit
 [19:09] <puzzles> These disks have the capacity to hold up to 3.9 terabytes (TB) of information, which is approximately 160 times the capacity of single-layer Blu-ray Discs.
 [19:09] <deadchip> but InPhase has it already
 [19:09] <puzzles> i just wet myself
 [19:09] <deadchip> mhah
 [19:09] <deadchip> the InPhase media have 200TB storage capacity
 [19:09] <deadchip> o_O
 [19:09] <puzzles> yeah i've read about the inphase stuff
 [19:09] <puzzles> that's cool too
 [19:09] <deadchip> LOL "cool too"
 [19:09] <theefer> who needs that much storage anyway? pointless.
 [19:10] <deadchip> "He who has the least pr0n throw the first stone."

== Archived Quotes ==
* [[IRC Quotes/2005]]