<div class="messagebox merge">'''SOMETHING PRETTY SIMILAR TO ALTERNATIVE 5 IS IMPLEMENTED - IT NEEDS TO BE DOCUMENTED HERE'''</div>

In the process of porting the collections api to python it becomes apparent that a decision has to be made about how to represent the collections structure.

There are a number of options, some of them are:

''All python examples use Sync API for simplicity''

===Alternative 1===
create a collections class which represents the various collections semantics as properties and attributes (with the occasional method if necessary).

A few examples:

Get an id list from a collection and set it to the id list of a new collection.

 coll_foo = xc.Collection('Foo')
 ids = coll_foo.ids
 idl_coll = xc.Collection(XMMS_COLL_TYPE_IDLIST)
 idl_coll.ids = ids


create a union of collection "Foo" and a custom collection (all media by Sonic Youth), and filter the resulting collection by year (only media from 2006).
 coll = xc.Collection(XMMS_COLL_TYPE_AND);
 # Reference to collection 'Foo'
 operand = xc.Connection(XMMS_COLL_TYPE_REFERENCE);
 operand['reference'] = ('Foo', 'Collections')
 coll.operand.append(operand)
 # All media by Sonic Youth
 operand = xc.Collection(XMMS_COLL_TYPE_MATCH);
 allmedia = xc.Collection(XMMS_COLL_TYPE_UNIVERSE)
 operand.operand.append(allmedia)
 operand['field'] = 'artist'
 operand['value'] = 'Sonic Youth'
 coll.operand.append(operand)
 # Filter media on year 2006
 last = xc.Collection(XMMS_COLL_TYPE_MATCH);
 last['year'] = '2006'
 last.operand.append(coll)

===Alternative 2===
Create a collections class with the same get/set methods as in the c bindings.


===Alternative 3===
Lets cut to the examples directly:

 from xmmsclient import collections as c
 
 coll = c.And(c.Reference('Collections:Foo'),
              c.Match(c.Universe(), {'field': 'artist', 'value': 'Sonic Youth'}),
              c.Match(c.Universe(), {'field': 'year', 'value': '2006'}))

How to use and modify them!
 
 print coll.operands
 # [<Reference>, <Match>, <Match>]
 del coll.operands[0]
 
 coll.operands.append(c.Reference('Collections:Party music'))
 
 print coll.operands
 # [<Match>, <Match>, <Reference>]
 
 # make it persistant on server!
 xc.coll_save(coll, 'Collections', 'My collection')
  
 m = c.Match(c.Universe(), {'field': 'artist', 'value': 'Thievery Corporation'})
 
 # get a list of ids matching collection
 matchingids = xc.coll_query_id(m)
 
 # I changed my mind..
 m['value'] = 'Air'
 
 songsbyair = xc.coll_query_info(m, ['title', 'duration', 'rating'])
 for song in songsbyair:
   print "%(album)s - %(title)s (%(duration)s)" % song

===Alternative 3.1===
Let's start with a pseudo-class-def

 class SomeOp (Collection):
   def __init__(self, *based_on, **arguments)
   def __getitem__(self, name)
   def __setitem__(self, name, val)
   def get_data(self)
   def set_data(self, data)
   def get_bases(self)            # these three might need better names
   def set_bases(self, based_on)
   def add_bases(self, *based_on)

and examples:

 base = c.Reference(name="SomeColl")  # **arguments for name, *based_on nothing
 jovibon = c.Match(base, field="artist", value="Jovi, Bun") # *based_on = [base]
 bonjovi = c.Match()       # we can add stuff later
 bonjovi.set_bases([base]) # like... here or in the next line.
 bonjovi.set_data({'field': 'artist', 'value': 'Bon Jovi'})
 alljovi = c.Or(jovibon, bonjovi)
 cool = c.And(alljovi)     # This time, set half the data later.
 cool.add_bases(c.Not(c.Contains(base, field="title", value="Life")))
 
 jovibon['value'] = 'Jovi, Bon'  # fix the typo
 cool.save(xmmsc, "SomeCoolCol") # XMMS2 is needed for saving to XMMS2.

===Alternative 4===

This one is based somewhat on alternative 3, with a few mods that I think make it more pythonic, and certainly requires less manual building (more automagic).

 from xmmsclient import collections as c
 
 # Get a ref to Collections:Foo
 foo = c.Collection('Foo') 
 
 # Create a filter that extracts all Bon Jovi 2k6 tracks from the whole medialib.
 # Note that this filter filters on several elements, so several match items chained
 # one behind the other will be created under the hood.
 fil = c.Match(c.Collection(), artist='Bon Jovi', year='2006')
 
 # Intersect the two.
 intersect = c.op.And(foo, fil)
 
 # Append another anti-filter on a playlist
 intersect.append(c.op.Not(c.Playlist('Bar')))
 
 # All track by Machinae Supremacy.
 masu = c.Match(c.Collection()), artist="Machinae Supremacy")
 
 # Combine these two into the final collection
 coll = c.op.Or(intersect, masu)

===Alternative 5===
This is supposed to take the good parts of 4 and merge into 3.

 from xmmsclient import collections as c
 
 coll = c.And(c.CollectionRef('Foo'),
              c.Match(c.Universe(), field='artist', value='Sonic Youth'}),
              c.Match(c.Universe(), field='year', value='2006'}))
 
 print coll.operands
 # [<CollectionRef>, <Match>, <Match>]
 del coll.operands[0]
 
 coll.operands.append(c.Reference('Collections:Party music'))
 
 print coll.operands
 # [<Match>, <Match>, <CollectionRef>]
 
 # make it persistant on server!
 xc.coll_save(coll, 'Collections', 'My collection')
  
 m = c.Match(c.Universe(), field='artist', value='Thievery Corporation'})
 
 print m.attributes
 # {'field': 'artist', 'value': 'Thievery Corporation'}
 
 print m.operands
 # [<Universe>]
  
 # get a list of ids matching collection
 matchingids = xc.coll_query_id(m)
 
 # I changed my mind..
 m.attributes['value'] = 'Air'
 
 songsbyair = xc.coll_query_info(m, ['title', 'duration', 'rating'])
 for song in songsbyair:
   print "%(album)s - %(title)s (%(duration)s)" % song



This should make clear separation between "operands" and "attributes". Instead of the c[attrib]=aval of alt3 and the c.append(operand) of alt4.

I find the automatic chaining of alt4 scary as it removes the 1:1 mapping to nodes in the dag, and when you later list that collection it will not be the same as you created. It would be better to just make a (trivial) higher level function that does it: (which makes it clear what happens, and doesn't do any magic behind the scenes -- Explicit is better than implicit)

 def make_chained_matches(coll, **matches):
     for f,v in matches.iteritems:
         coll = c.Match(coll, field=f, value=v);
     return coll

Also it is important that it is easy to change the attributes. A GUI would probably do something like:

 def setup_match_gui(..):
     ...
     self.match_field = SomeInputWidget()
     def on_field_change(val):
         self.collection.attributes['field'] = val
     self.match_field.on_change = on_field_change
 
     self.match_value = SomeInputWidget()
     def on_value_change(val):
         self.collection.attributes['value'] = val
     self.match_field.on_change = on_value_change

===Alternative 6===
'''this is at least implemented in the git version(works for me)'''

 import xmmsclient
 from xmmsclient import collections
 import os
 import sys
  
 xmms = xmmsclient.XMMS("Sasdlkfjselect")
  
 try:
 	xmms.connect(os.getenv("XMMS_PATH"))
 except IOError, detail:
 	print "Connection failed:", detail
 	sys.exit(1)
  
  
 artist = collections.Match( field="artist", value="Pink" )
 album = collections.Has(artist, "album")
 title = collections.Match(field="title", value="%pink%")
   
 result = xmms.coll_query_infos( artist, ("artist", "title" ))
 result.wait()
 print result.value()
 
 print "---"
 result = xmms.coll_query_infos( album, ("artist", "title" ))
 result.wait()
 print result.value()
  
 print "---"
 result = xmms.coll_query_infos( title, ("artist", "title" ))
 result.wait()
 print result.value()
  
 print "---"
 result = xmms.coll_query_infos( title | album, ("artist", "title" ))
 result.wait()
 print result.value()


Other ideas welcome!

[[Category:Developer ideas]]