* [[Proposed Graphic Competition|Graphics design contest]]
** Quick check up on $$$ from Google
* [[XMMS2Forge]]
** Check up on implementation ideas
* [[Request for pull mailbot]]
** Check up on implementation ideas
* Possible XMMS2 and [http://amarok.kde.org/ AmaroK] collaboration (re: [[Tobias RundstrÃ¶m|tru]] @ GSoC mentor summit)
** Deferred from last meeting
* Waf implementation (danderson)
** Perl bindings
** [[Windows|Windows port]]
* [[Generated IPC]]
** Check up on implementation ideas
* [[Talk:Versioning#Dr_I...|DrI name]]
** <mantis>1230</mantis>
** No discussion at last meeting

[[Category:IRC Meeting]]