This is a slightly abridged overview and abstract from my original proposal [http://people.xmms2.org/~puzzles/sc/SoC XMMS2 Service Clients Proposal.pdf]:

== Overview ==
Service clients are very simple, but very powerful clients which provide
basic services for use in other clients. They are regular clients, which means they
connect to and use XMMS2 in the same way as any other client, but they also
publish methods with which to access their services in other clients. Regular
clients, or even other service clients, since they are regular clients, too, can call
these methods and benefit from the services provided.

The idea fits in with the XMMS2 philosophy in that each service client does
one thing and does it well, much like how the XMMS2 server handles playback and
mediainfo well while clients focus on a specific user interface. Service clients
prevent client authors from having to reimplement basic functions in their code by
using a common implementation. The benefits go beyond this obvious time and
energy savings and also include an increase in quality of services.

== Abstract ==
Last year's Summer of Code provided an implementation of the service
client idea by student Ning Shi and his mentor [[User:Theefer|S&eacute;bastien Cevey]]. As of [[Release:DrLecter|DrLecter]],
it's still unmerged with the main codebase, there are no language bindings written
for it, and only some proof-of-concept clients. Service client code will be brought
back up-to-date, some issues fixed, then merged into the main codebase. Then,
Ruby bindings will be written. Finally, some service clients will be converted or
written anew to ease implementation of common features in various clients.