Ancient history of XMMS2. See [[History/Prehistory]] for even more ancient history, tracing back to XMMS2's spiritual ancestry.
__NOTOC__

= 2002 =
== (Late 2002) ==
[[Tobias Rundström]] and Peter Alm talk about making a "kickass player" during a boring day at work. The idea is to build a C++ project as a library which could be embedded into different clients.

= 2003 =
== January ==
;28th:
Initial code repository created. (BK/Git history goes back to this date)

== April ==
;18th:
[[User:Anders Gustafsson | Anders]] makes his first changeset, adding a SID plugin.

;26th:
XMMS2 switches to using DBUS IPC - now split into a client and a server.

== June ==
;20th:
Python client bindings added.

== July ==
;7th:
[[Daniel Svensson]] makes his first contribution: "alsa output plugin, first miserable version... order a life insurance before testing."

;21st:
Anders adds an SDL visualisation client.

;22nd:
XMMS2 starts switching to using SCons for building. (Done by 24th)

= 2004 =
== February ==
;20th:
[[Tilman Sauerbeck]] contributes his first patch: "Make -o to xmms2d work again ..."

;24th:
Tilman adds ecore xmms2 client bindings.

== April ==
;19th:
[[Michael Lindgren]] cleans up the Vorbis plugin.

== July ==
;21st:
[[Chris Morgan]] contributes a JACK output plugin.

== August ==
;18th:
Ruby client bindings added.

== September ==
;7th:
[[Sham Chukoury]] contributes a documentation patch.

;22nd:
XMMS2 switches to socket IPC (UNIX & TCP). (TCP socket support isn't completed until late November)

== October ==
;20th:
[[Kristian Benoit]] fixes shuffling.

= 2005 =
== January ==
;14th:
Christopher Rosell adds FreeBSD support for the CDAE plugin.

== April ==
;17th:
[[Alexander Botero-Lowry]] fixes a strange buildflag in the xmmsclient SConscript.

;24th:
Dismantled agrees to offer a clip as an intro/demo song for XMMS2.

;28th:
[[Jens Taprogge]] fixes Debian package-building configuration and starts maintaining XMMS2 Debian packages.

== May ==
;20th:
XMMS2 [[Release:DR1 | Developer Release 1]] is done.

;21st:
XMMS2 moves from BitKeeper to Git. (takes a few days)

;26th:
[http://lwn.net LWN] publishes an introductory article about XMMS2 in its 'Development' section.

== June ==
;1st:
XMMS2 [[Release:DR1.1 | Developer Release 1.1]] is done - mostly a bugfix release after DR1.

== July ==
;19th
[[Dan Chokola]]'s first accepted patch (fixing formatting bugs in the CLI client) makes it into the codebase.

== August ==
;4th:
[[Release:DR2 | Developer Release 2]] is done. Exactly one day later, we fix 2 critical bugs.

;19th:
[[Release:DR2.1 | Developer Release 2.1]] is done, fixing a few bugs found in DR2.

== September ==
;7th:
[[Release:DR2.2 | Developer Release 2.2]] is done, fixing bugs found in DR2.1.

== December ==
;18th:
[[Release:DrAlban | DrAlban]] is done, adding a number of features, bug fixes and some client API changes.

;21st:
[http://planet.xmms2.org Planet XMMS2] goes live.

= 2006 =
== January ==
;13th:
[[Release:DrBombay | DrBombay]] is released, fixing some annoying bugs in DrAlban.

== February ==
;21st:
[[Release:DrCox | DrCox]] is released, fixing even more annoying bugs in DrBombay, including a fairly serious SQLite issue. DrCox also introduces a new mixer API.

== March ==
;27th:
[[Release:DrDolittle | DrDolittle]] is released, with yet more minor feature additions and bug fixes. A new [[Roadmap]] is also announced, to track future release targets.
 <sacarasc> DrDolittle, released 13:37 on the 27th March
            (if you live in Mexico City or similar ;D)

== April ==
;27th:
XMMS2 is accepted as a mentoring organisation in Google's Summer of Code program. Approximately 50 project proposals are submitted to XMMS2.

== May ==
;23rd:
Five students are accepted to work on XMMS2 as part of Google's [[Summer of Code 2006]]:

* [[SoC:DAAP | Support for DAAP]]
** '''Student''': Cole Thompson
** '''Mentor''': Tobias Rundström

* [[SoC:TurboX2 | TurboX2 Release Engineering and Development]]
** '''Student''': Alexander Botero-Lowry
** '''Mentor''': Tobias Rundström

* [[Collections]]
** '''Student''': Sébastien Cevey
** '''Mentor''': Anders Gustafsson

* [[SoC:AirTunes | Support Apple Lossless Audio Codec (ALAC) and remote streaming to Airport Express in XMMS2]]
** '''Student''': Mohsin Patel
** '''Mentor''': Anders Gustafsson

* [[SoC:XMMS2Testing | XMMS2 Test Framework]]
** '''Student''': Abdul Haseeb
** '''Mentor''': Sham Chukoury

== July ==	 
;6th:	 
[[Release:DrEvil | DrEvil]] is released, introducing a major change with the reworking of xmms2d's internals into [[Transforms]], as well as other bug fixes.

;15th:
[[Release:DrFeelgood | DrFeelgood]] is released, with the shortest release cycle yet! This release simply targets a few bugs found soon after the release of DrEvil.

== September ==
The wiki gets a serious overhaul.

;26th:
[[Release:DrGonzo | DrGonzo]] is mysteriously released.

== November ==
;20th:
The first ever XMMS2 [[IRC Meeting]] is held.

== December ==
;2nd:
[[Release:DrHouse | DrHouse]] is conjured.