= Broadcasts =

== broadcast_coll_changed ==

Collection changed.

* '''<nowiki>res[:name]</nowiki>''' - name of a changed collection.
* '''<nowiki>res[:namespace]</nowiki>''' - it's namespace.
* '''<nowiki>res[:type]</nowiki>''' -  type of change:
** '''Xmms::Collection::ADD''' - new collection was added.
** '''Xmms::Collection::UPDATE''' - collection was changed.
** '''Xmms::Collection::RENAME''' - collection was renamed.
*** <nowiki>res[:newname]</nowiki> - new name of a collection.
** '''Xmms::Collection::REMOVE''' - collection was removed.

== broadcast_config_value_changed ==

Some configuration variable changed.

* '''res''' is a hash of key-value pairs. Key is a configuration variable name, while value is... well, it's value. Sample code:

<pre>
xmms.broadcast_config_value_changed.notifier do |res|
    res.each_pair do |key, value|
        puts "#{key} = #{value}"
    end
end
</pre>

'''Note''': in v.0.6 and v.0.7 key is a symbol. It is a bug. Use key.to_s to get key's name.

== broadcast_mediainfo_reader_status ==

== broadcast_medialib_entry_added ==

== broadcast_medialib_entry_changed ==

== broadcast_playback_current_id ==

XMMS2 began playing another song.

* '''res''' - another song's id.

== broadcast_playback_status ==

Playback status was changed.

* '''res''' - new status:
** '''Xmms::Client::PLAY''' - playing;
** '''Xmms::Client::STOP''' - stopped;
** '''Xmms::Client::PAUSE''' - paused.

== broadcast_playback_volume_changed ==

Volume changed.

* '''<nowiki>res[:left]</nowiki>''' - left channel's volume.
* '''<nowiki>res[:right]</nowiki>''' - right channel's volume.

== broadcast_playlist_changed ==

Playlist changed.

* '''<nowiki>res[:name]</nowiki>''' - name of a changed playlist.
* '''<nowiki>res[:type]</nowiki>''' - type of change:
** '''Xmms::Playlist::ADD''' - song was added (?)to the end(?) of a playlist. 
*** <nowiki>res[:id]</nowiki> - id of a new song;
*** <nowiki>res[:position]</nowiki> - new song's position.
** '''Xmms::Playlist::INSERT''' - song was inserted to a playlist at some position.
*** <nowiki>res[:id]</nowiki> - id of a new song;
*** <nowiki>res[:position]</nowiki> - new song's position.
** '''Xmms::Playlist::SHUFFLE''' - playlist was shuffled.
** '''Xmms::Playlist::REMOVE''' - song was removed from a playlist.
*** <nowiki>res[:position]</nowiki> - position of a song.
** '''Xmms::Playlist::CLEAR''' - playlist was cleared.
** '''Xmms::Playlist::MOVE''' - song was moved from one position in a playlist to another.
*** <nowiki>res[:position]</nowiki> - old position of a song;
*** <nowiki>res[:newposition]</nowiki> - new position of a song.
** '''Xmms::Playlist::SORT''' - playlist was sorted.
** '''Xmms::Playlist::UPDATE''' - ??

== broadcast_playlist_current_pos ==

Current position in playlist changed.

* '''<nowiki>res[:name]</nowiki>''' - name of a playlist.
* '''<nowiki>res[:position]</nowiki>''' - new active song's position.

== broadcast_playlist_loaded ==

Some playlist was loaded.

* '''res''' - name of a loaded playlist (string).

== broadcast_quit ==

Server was shutdown.