A brief historical timeline of the XMMS2 project.

For older history, see [[History/Ancient | Ancient History]]

= 2006 =
== January ==
;13th:
[[Release:DrBombay | DrBombay]] is released, fixing some annoying bugs in DrAlban.

== February ==
;21st:
[[Release:DrCox | DrCox]] is released, fixing even more annoying bugs in DrBombay, including a fairly serious SQLite issue. DrCox also introduces a new mixer API.

== March ==
;27th:
[[Release:DrDolittle | DrDolittle]] is released, with yet more minor feature additions and bug fixes. A new [[Roadmap]] is also announced, to track future release targets.
 <sacarasc> DrDolittle, released 13:37 on the 27th March
            (if you live in Mexico City or similar ;D)

== April ==
;27th:
XMMS2 is accepted as a mentoring organisation in Google's Summer of Code program. Approximately 50 project proposals are submitted to XMMS2.

== May ==
;23rd:
Five students are accepted to work on XMMS2 as part of Google's Summer of Code:

* [[SoC:DAAP | Support for DAAP]]
** '''Student''': Cole Thompson
** '''Mentor''': Tobias Rundström

* [[SoC:TurboX2 | TurboX2 Release Engineering and Development]]
** '''Student''': Alexander Botero-Lowry
** '''Mentor''': Tobias Rundström

* [[Collections]]
** '''Student''': Sébastien Cevey
** '''Mentor''': Anders Gustafsson

* [[SoC:AirTunes | Support Apple Lossless Audio Codec (ALAC) and remote streaming to Airport Express in XMMS2]]
** '''Student''': Mohsin Patel
** '''Mentor''': Anders Gustafsson

* [[SoC:XMMS2Testing | XMMS2 Test Framework]]
** '''Student''': Abdul Haseeb
** '''Mentor''': Sham Chukoury

== July ==	 
;6th:	 
[[Release:DrEvil | DrEvil]] is released, introducing a major change with the reworking of xmms2d's internals into [[Transforms]], as well as other bug fixes.

;15th:
[[Release:DrFeelgood | DrFeelgood]] is released, with the shortest release cycle yet! This release simply targets a few bugs found soon after the release of DrEvil.

== Now ==
We're all just chillin until we decide to get serious about the next release. Or something. :P

[[Category:General]]