This is a to-do list for the wiki, not XMMS2 itself. The [http://bugs.xmms2.org bug tracker] is the to-do list for XMMS2 - see [[Reporting bugs]] for details. If you're new to this wiki, see the [[XMMS2:Wikiguidelines | wiki guidelines]].

* (continuously) improve navigation around the wiki.
* [[Project Status]] is very poorly maintained. It probably needs to be replaced with something that is semi-automatically updated - possibly with integration with mantis.
* Try and improve information about tools and dependencies needed to build, install and/or package XMMS2. Possibly provide distro-specific instructions about installing tools and dependencies.
* Have a packaging guidelines page?
* [[Using the application]] could probably explain a bit more about how to use ''xmms2-launcher''
* update references to decoder/transport -> xform
* Add a 'featured client' box to the home page
* Merge [[README]] & [[About]] pages -> Use new About page as basis for README distributed with code tree.
* Write a 'hacking howto' or similar -> improve [[Developer Corner]] so it tells interested contributors what they should know/do to contribute to XMMS2.
* Enhance [[Roadmap]] for possible inclusion in sidebar menu
* Move [[Sitemap]] & recent changes to toolbox

These are a few more specific things relating to certain pages.

* [[FAQ]]
** When will XMMS2 be released As a non-Developer release?
*** isn't that already the case?
** Why does XMMS2 require SQLite3 and why is the db backend not selectable?
*** is the s4 switch ready yet?
** How do I bind hotkeys to xmms2 commands?
*** maybe link to the contribs page?
** Seems like you are using a non-standard buildsystem, why not Make?
*** the waf switch is already done, isn't it?
** When I add my media collection to the playlist, x files don't show up.
*** the bug mentioned in A2 is marked as resolved. should that part be removed?

* [[Contribs]]
** XPLAY
*** The svn server doesn't work any more
** Init Scripts
*** the bug has since been rejected, remove this, too?
** BSD init scripts
*** the contrib folder on xmms2.xmms2.org 404s.
** Play-Pause toggle client (python, C)
*** nycli does this perfectly, does it not? why have it?
** XChat2 info script
*** the server doesn't seem to exist any more. remove it?
** Bash tab completion for the xmms2 client
*** the page linked to ("bash tab completion for the CLI") seems much more comprehensive. but is it still up to date?
** the rest still needs looking at.

* [[Submitting code]]
** Suggestions speaks of SConscript files. how does this section translate to the waf build system?

* [[Project_Status]]
** This page appears to be out of date, too. Maybe it would be best to actually write a script that generates the page instead of doing it by hand?

* [[:Category:GSoC]]
** What happened to the projects? Which one have been done, which one have produced results? There seems to be a complete lack of information for all of these.

(''add more todo items to this list')