{{Navbar}}

''Unfortunately, no one can be told what XMMS2 is. You have to see it for yourself.''

== Why XMMS2? ==

Why bother working on a next generation XMMS while there are various existing and more advanced projects already in progress, some ready for production use? Because XMMS is just too damn popular to be allowed to die, of course! But seriously, while the field of 'audio playback' in general is something of an old beaten path, there is still much room for improvement.

Constant progress is happening in the field of digital audio playback, including: new compression/encoding schemes, better and more flexible encapsulation and container formats, more efficient encoders and decoders, better ways of managing collections of music files, new ways of letting users interact with their music and so on. XMMS2 jumps into the mix with the goal of trying to provide an improved music listening experience for users. 

The XMMS2 project started in late 2002 as an idea to make a "kick-ass music player", and has eventually evolved into the next generation XMMS. The need for an XMMS replacement had been evident for years: the XMMS codebase and framework weren't exactly well-designed from the beginning. Lately, active development of XMMS has mostly stopped, this can be attributed to the lack of active developers, and a broken codebase. Adding new features to XMMS is difficult. Some of the most-wanted features would be nearly impossible to add. Some parts of XMMS are beyond patching, a re-design of the framework is needed.

Developers of another fork of XMMS, BMP, the "Beep media player", comment on XMMS:
''The XMMS code we inherited is old and messy. In more specific terms, it is poorly structured, poorly documented and littered with duplications. It is difficult to modify or extend one component of XMMS without breaking another. We spent most of our time fixing problems that were introduced after seemingly innocent modifications.''

The XMMS2 team is committed to producing a better music player, while diligently maintaining a robust and flexible design. The goal is to make the system easy for developers to maintain and integrate with. In terms of the listening experience, XMMS2 makes it possible for anyone to easily manage their music collection and to interact with it in a flexible manner.

== What is XMMS2? How is it different? ==

Being namely the descendant of XMMS and especially marked second generation, people will have all kinds of expectations what XMMS2 will and will not be. I'll first list the whats and whatnots shortly and explain the reasons more thoroughly afterwards.

* XMMS2 is a music player, it plays audio.
* XMMS2 is not a video player.
* XMMS2 does have a GUI, but it is not integrated. Instead, we talk about clients, and there can be many clients connected to the daemon.
* There will be one "official" GUI client and one "official" commandline client.

So, XMMS2 is definitely an audio player. But it is ''not'' a multimedia player - it will not play videos. It has a modular framework and plugin architecture for audio processing, visualisation and output, but this framework has not been designed to support video. Also the daemon/client-type design of XMMS2 (and the daemon being independent of any graphics output) practically prevents video output being implemented. Reasons for this have been stated in the section above (''Why XMMS2?'')

== People involved ==

=== Main development ===
* [[Tobias Rundström]]
* [[User:Anders Gustafsson|Anders Gustafsson]]

=== Contributors and Hangarounds ===
* [[Peter Alm]]
* [[Thomas Nilsson]]
* [[Michael Lindgren]]
* [[Daniel Svensson]]
* [[Olle Hällnäs]]
* [[Chris Morgan]]
* [[Matti Hämäläinen]]
* [[Tilman Sauerbeck]]
* [[Christopher Rosell]]
* [[Kristian Benoit]]
* [[Sham Chukoury]]
* [[Alexander Botero-Lowry]]
* [[Jens Taprogge]]
* [[Tuure Laurinolli]]
* [[Juho Vähä-Herttua]]
* [[Alexander Rigbo]]
* [[Daniel Pearson]]
* [[Vegard Nossum]]
* [[Magnus Bjernstad]]
* [[Ma Xuan]]

== Contact info ==
;E-Mail :
* tru at xmms dot org
* andersg at xmms dot org
* [http://lists.xmms.org/mailman/listinfo/xmms2-devel xmms2-devel mailing list]

;IRC :
* irc.freenode.net:6667 #xmms2
* #xmms2 [[IRC Quotes]]

[[Category: General]]
'''- [[http://levitra1.atspace.org levitra]]''' 
'''- [[http://levitra-online.atspace.com levitra online]]'''
'''- [[http://levitra-prices.atspace.org levitra prices]]'''
'''- [[http://order-levitra1.atspace.org order levitra]]'''
'''- [[http://generic-levitra.atspace.org generic levitra]]'''
'''- [[http://levitra-uk.atspace.com levitra uk]]'''
'''- [[http://buy-levitra1.atspace.com buy levitra]]''' 
'''- [[http://levitra-viagra.atspace.com levitra viagra]]''' 
'''- [[http://viagra-levitra.atspace.com viagra levitra]]''' 
'''- [[http://levitra-side.atspace.com levitra side]]''' 
'''- [[http://buylevitraonline.atspace.com buy levitra online]]''' 
'''- [[http://online-levitra.atspace.com online levitra]]''' 
'''- [[http://levitra-buy.atspace.us levitra buy]]''' 
'''- [[http://what-is-levitra.atspace.com what is levitra]]''' 
'''- [[http://cheap-levitra.atspace.biz cheap levitra]]''' 
'''- [[http://take-levitra.atspace.biz take levitra]]''' 
'''- [[http://www-levitra.atspace.biz www levitra]]''' 
'''- [[http://levitra-review.atspace.com levitra review]]''' 
'''- [[http://levitra-order.atspace.org levitra order]]''' 
'''- [[http://free-porn-clips.servik.com Free porn clips]]''' 
'''- [[http://freepornvideos.servik.com free porn videos]]''' 
'''- [[http://hardcore-porn.servik.com hardcore porn]]''' 
'''- [[http://asian-porn.servik.com asian porn]]''' 
'''- [[http://porn-stars.servik.com porn stars]]''' 
'''- [[http://free-lesbian-porn.servik.com free lesbian porn]]''' 
'''- [[http://free-gay-porn.servik.com free gay porn]]''' 
'''- [[http://black-porn.servik.com black porn]]''' 
'''- [[http://underage-porn.servik.com underage porn]]''' 
'''- [[http://reality-porn.servik.com reality porn]]''' 
'''- [[http://celebrity-porn.servik.com celebrity porn]]''' 
'''- [[http://porn-star.servik.com porn star]]''' 
'''- [[http://futurama-porn.servik.com futurama porn]]''' 
'''- [[http://antispyware.100free.com anti spyware]]''' 
'''- [[http://freespyware.100free.com free spyware]]''' 
'''- [[http://spyware1.100free.com spyware]]''' 
'''- [[http://antispywaresoftware.100free.com anti spyware software]]''' 
'''- [[http://toon-porn.servik.com cartoon porn]]'''