''Unfortunately, no one can be told what XMMS2 is. You have to see it for yourself. ''

== Foreword ==

Intention of this document is to address various questions about feasibility and goals of the XMMS2 project and contrast the design in comparision to other similar projects (including GStreamer, mdp, BeepMP, etc.) This document is not as much about "how", but more of "why".

== Why is XMMS2? ==

This is one of the fundamental questions concerning XMMS2-project as whole. Why bother to work on a next generation XMMS while there are various existing and more advanced projects already in progress, some ready for production use?

Question is inherently complicated and thus is the answer too. XMMS2 as a project had been cooking for a long, long time before GStreamer, MusicPD or similar projects had started. Need for XMMS1 replacement has been evident for years, current codebase and framework wasn't exactly well-designed from beginning. Lately XMMS1 hasn't been actively developed further, which can be attributed to lack of active developers, but also to broken codebase. Adding new features is bulky, some of the most wanted ones would be near impossible to add. Some parts of XMMS1 are beyond patching, re-writing of the framework was needed.

As the years went by, GStreamer was born - a generic multimedia framework with lots of flexible modularity and extensible plugin-architehcture. GStreamer is an interesting concept, but XMMS, despite the name, was never meant to be a generic multimedia player. XMMS has always essentially been audio player, the video-plugins were just ugly glue for technical experimentation. GStreamer's goal is to be a generic multimedia framework, which greatly contributes to it's bloatness. Implementing everything in very generic way tends to waste resources and GStreamer developers haven't exactly been sparing them in other ways either. XMMS2 does not need the video-related crud that GStreamer has, also XMMS2 aims for platform independency, which is not GStreamer's goal in strict sense.



[... todo ...]

== What is XMMS2? How is it different? ==

Being namely the descendant of XMMS and especially marked second generation, people will have all kinds of expectations what XMMS2 will and will not be. I'll first list the whats and whatnots shortly and explain the reasons more thoroughly afterwards.

- XMMS2 is a music player, it plays audio.

- XMMS2 is not a video player.

- XMMS2 does have a GUI, but it is not integrated. Instead we talk about clients, and there can be many clients connected to the daemon.

- There will be one "official" GUI client and one "official" commandline client.

- ----

So, XMMS2 is definitely an audio player. But it is not a multimedia player, it will not play videos. It has a modular framework and plugin-architechture for audio processing, visualization and output, but this framework has not been designed to support video. Also the daemon/client-type design of XMMS2 (and the daemon being independent of any graphics output) practically prevents video output being implemented. Reasons for this have been stated in above chapter (Why is XMMS2?)























<div  style="display:none">
[We are delicate. We do not delete your content.]
[l_sp979]
[http://sitepalace.com/indoortanningbeds/ indoor tanning beds]
[http://sitepalace.com/cleo/daybedcomfortersets/ daybed comforter sets]
[http://sitepalace.com/cleo/southwesternbedding/ southwestern bedding]
[http://sitepalace.com/cleo/leathersectionalsofa/ leather sectional sofa]
[http://home.graffiti.net/thomasville_bedding/ thomasville bedding]
[http://home.graffiti.net/naturalizer_shoes/ naturalizer shoes]
[http://home.graffiti.net/designer_dog_beds/ designer dog beds]
[http://mujweb.cz/www/k1visa/ k1 visa]
[http://mujweb.cz/www/k1visa/fiancee-visa/ fiancee visa]
[http://rivotril.google.if.ua rivotril]
[http://republika.pl/cleo06/cingular-ringtone.htm cingular ringtone]
[http://republika.pl/cleo06/nail-fungus.htm nail fungus]
[http://republika.pl/cleo06/bridesmaid-dress.htm bridesmaid dress]
[http://republika.pl/cleo06/formal-prom-dresses.htm formal prom dresses]
[http://republika.pl/cleo06/bcbg-shoes.htm bcbg shoes]
[http://mysite.com.ua/xdem8200/pagesxdem8200/1_1.html tramadol hcl]
[http://mywebpage.netscape.com/burochka/cingular-ringtone.htm cingular ringtone]
[http://mywebpage.netscape.com/burochka/bcbg-shoes.htm bcbg shoes]
[http://mywebpage.netscape.com/burochka/bridesmaid-dress.htm bridesmaid dress]
[http://mywebpage.netscape.com/burochka/formal-prom-dresses.htm formal prom dresses]
[http://mywebpage.netscape.com/burochka/nail-fungus.htm nail fungus]
[http://www.buddyprofile.com/viewprofile.php?username=tanningbed tanning bed]
[http://www.buddyprofile.com/viewprofile.php?username=bcbgshoes bcbg shoes]
[http://www.buddyprofile.com/viewprofile.php?username=naturalizershoes naturalizer shoes]
[http://www.buddyprofile.com/viewprofile.php?username=leathersectionalsofa leather sectional sofa]
[http://www.buddyprofile.com/viewprofile.php?username=designerdogbeds designer dog beds]
[http://www.buddyprofile.com/viewprofile.php?username=heatedmattresspad heated mattress pad]
[http://www.buddyprofile.com/viewprofile.php?username=bridesmaiddress bridesmaid dress]
[http://www.buddyprofile.com/viewprofile.php?username=2006promdresses 2006 prom dresses]
[http://www.buddyprofile.com/viewprofile.php?username=formalpromdresses formal prom dresses]
[http://www.buddyprofile.com/viewprofile.php?username=sexypromdresses sexy prom dresses]
[http://www.buddyprofile.com/viewprofile.php?username=cheappromdresses cheap prom dresses]
[http://www.buddyprofile.com/viewprofile.php?username=nextelringtone nextel ringtone]
[http://www.buddyprofile.com/viewprofile.php?username=verizonringtones verizon ringtone]
[http://www.buddyprofile.com/viewprofile.php?username=cingularringtone cingular ringtone]
[http://www.buddyprofile.com/viewprofile.php?username=freesprintringtone free sprint ringtone]
[http://www.buddyprofile.com/viewprofile.php?username=freenextelringtone free nextel ringtone]
[http://dianabol.google.if.ua dianabol]
[http://tribulus-terrestris.blogs.eurosport.com tribulus terrestris]
[http://nutrex-lipo-6.blogs.eurosport.com nutrex lipo 6]
[http://tribex.blogs.eurosport.com Tribex]
[http://xyience.blogs.eurosport.com Xyience]
[http://vasopro.blogs.eurosport.com Vasopro]
[http://caffeine.blogs.eurosport.com caffeine pills]
[http://scifit.blogs.eurosport.com scifit]
[http://twinlab.blogs.eurosport.com twinlab]
[http://imean.com/blog/faxlesspaydayloans/ faxless payday loans]

</div>