''This proposal is now a de-facto standard in the [[XMMS2 Development Process]].''

When code in one of the [[XMMS2 Development Process#Code trees | XMMS2 code trees]] has been modified, the commit message should have one of the several following tags in the format ''<TAG>: <description>'':

* BUG(n):
** Refer to a specific bug report in mantis
* FEATURE(n):
** Refer to a specific feature request in mantis
* OTHER
** Changes that do not have corresponding entries in mantis - '''SHOULD BE AVOIDED!'''
** Reserve this for minor changes that don't affect functionality: code cleanups, spelling fixes, etc.
* RELEASE
** For commits that denote release-status code.

The commit message '''may''' also contain the following tags:

* PLUGINMINOR
** Backwards but not forward compatible changes in some plugin ABI
* PLUGINMAJOR
** Non-backwards compatible changes in some plugin ABI
* CLIENTMINOR
** Backwards but not forward compatible changes in clientlib ABI
* CLIENTMAJOR
** Non-backwards compatible changes in clientlib ABI
* PYTHONMINOR
** Backwards but not forward compatible changes in clientlib ABI
* PYTHONMAJOR
** Non-backwards compatible changes in clientlib ABI
* PROTOCOL
** Changes in client/server protocol requires new clientlib. Does NOT imply changes in the clientlib ABI!

== Original Proposal ==

''This is the original proposal text - not all proposed tags are now used.''

When you have done a change to the git tree and want to commit it. The commit message should have tags as follows:

<TAG>:Text

Where TAG should be one of the following:

* BUG: Fix for a bug filed in mantis, should also refer to that bug ''BUG(177) - Fixed chrashbug in medialib''
* FEATURE: general feature added in the daemon. Since feature requests are also filed on the bug tracker, this tag should also be followed by a bug number.
* CLIENTLIB: important if you change anything in the clientlib. this will be tracked by bindings and client developers.
* OTHER: a change that won't be propagated in the ChangeLog. mostly unimportant things like spelling mistakes.
* DOC: documentation / comment updates.
* <SECTION>MAJOR or <SECTION>MINOR:
** PLUGINMINOR: backwards but not forward compatible changes in some plugin ABI
** PLUGINMAJOR: non backwards compatible changes in some plugin ABI
** CLIENTMINOR backwards but not forward compatible changes in clientlib ABI
** CLIENTMAJOR non backwards compatible changes in clientlib ABI
** PYTHONMINOR backwards but not forward compatible changes in python bindings
** PYTHONMAJOR non backwards compatible changes in python bindings
* PROTOCOL changes in client/server protocol - requires new clientlib. does NOT imply changes in the in the clientlib ABI!

Perhaps the following tags might also be useful:
* CLI: command line client
* ALSA, OSS, VORBIS (plugin name): changes to various plugins (''src/plugins'')
* RUBY: changes to Ruby bindings
* C# binding? (this category is represented on Mantis, I don't know if it's still valid)
* MLIB: changes to medialib (including sqlite?)
* SCONS: changes to scons conf/build system
* IPC: changes to IPC layer
* TRANSPORT, DECODER, OUTPUT: changes to these modules...
* CONFIG: changes to daemon config system
* PLAYLIST: changes to playlist module

Perhaps not so useful, but I'll list them anyway...
* VIS: visualisation data
* HEADER: changes to include files?

== See Also ==
* http://people.xmms2.org/~andersg/changelog-propolas.txt
* [[XMMS2 Development Process]]

[[Category:Developer info]]
[[Category:Policies and guidelines]]