__NOTOC__
{{Client | name=Esperanza| author=Tobias Rundström| website=(this page)| version=0.4.0| devlanguage=C++| ui=Qt4| screenshots=See [[#Features|below]]| description=
== Intro ==
Esperanza is a client written with C++ / Qt4 and aims to be cross-platform goodness for everyone. The client is written by [[User:TobiasRundström|Tobias Rundström]].

Please see the [[Client:Esperanza/Roadmap|Roadmap]] for new and upcoming features.

== Features ==

* Sleek, uncomplicated UI ([http://people.xmms2.org/~tru/screens/esperanza/0.2/ui.png screen])
* Albumart in the playlist ([http://people.xmms2.org/~tru/screens/esperanza/0.2/ui.png screen])
* Medialib search window ([http://people.xmms2.org/~tru/screens/esperanza/0.2/mlib.png screen])
* Medialib browse window
* Strong focus on keyboard handling
* [http://www.growl.info Growl] support on MacOSX ([http://people.xmms2.org/~tru/screens/esperanza/0.1/growl.png screen])
* Server browser (with mDNS support) ([http://people.xmms2.org/~tru/screens/esperanza/0.2/server.png screen])
* Customization support ([http://people.xmms2.org/~tru/screens/esperanza/0.2/pref.png screen])
* Windows support ([http://people.xmms2.org/~tru/screens/esperanza/0.2/win32.png screen])
* Mini-mode ([http://people.xmms2.org/~tru/screens/esperanza/0.2/mini.png screen])
* Last.fm browser

== News ==
[http://git.xmms2.org/xmms2/esperanza/tree/ChangeLog ChangeLog] (will be updated with any version)

=== Esperanza 0.4.0 (2007-08-13) ===
Finally 0.4.0 is released. Thanks for all help finding bugs and testing.

[http://people.xmms2.org/~tru/esperanza/0.4/ Download.]

=== Esperanza 0.4.0rc1 (2007-08-01) ===
A new Release Candidate is up. Please test and report bugs.

[http://people.xmms2.org/~tru/esperanza/0.4/ Download.]

=== Esperanza 0.3.0 (2007-04-20) ===
Release is up.

[http://git.xmms2.org/xmms2/esperanza/tree/ChangeLog ChangeLog.]

[http://people.xmms2.org/~tru/esperanza/0.3/ Download.]

=== Esperanza 0.3.0rc1 (2007-04-10) ===
This is the first release candidate for the 0.3.0 that probably will happen together with DrJekyll. Please test this. But be aware that it only works with DrI+WIP+TEST4.

[http://git.xmms2.org/xmms2/esperanza/tree/ChangeLog ChangeLog.]

[http://people.xmms2.org/~tru/esperanza/0.3/ Download.]

=== Esperanza 0.2.2 (2006-12-01) ===

Early Christmas present, Esperanza 0.2.2 is released. It's just a accumulated features / bugfixes release. This release required a new XMMS2D (DrHouse).

[http://git.xmms2.org/xmms2/esperanza/tree/ChangeLog ChangeLog.]

[http://people.xmms2.org/~tru/esperanza/0.2/ Download.]

=== Esperanza 0.2.1 (2006-11-10) ===

Esperanza 0.2.1 is released. Just bugfixes and small additions. See the [http://git.xmms2.org/xmms2/esperanza/tree/ChangeLog ChangeLog.] And download: [http://people.xmms2.org/~tru/esperanza/0.2/ here]

=== Esperanza 0.2.0 (2006-11-07) ===

New version with a lot of [http://git.xmms2.org/xmms2/esperanza/tree/ChangeLog news]. Download [http://people.xmms2.org/~tru/esperanza/0.2/ here]. Observe that it now requires Qt4.2.x

=== Esperanza 0.1.1 (2006-11-01) ===

Missing files in 0.1 makes me release 0.1.1, same place as before.

=== Esperanza 0.1 (2006-11-01) ===

0.1 is released today. You can download the release (source) here: http://people.xmms2.org/~tru/esperanza/ and MacOSX binaries from the same URL. OBSERVE that this is not XMMS2, just the Esperanza client!

== Install and build ==

=== Source ===

Releases can be found at http://people.xmms2.org/~tru/esperanza/ and the latest devel can be found in [http://git.xmms2.org/xmms2/esperanza/ XMMS2 git tree]. Take a look at the info about [[Client:Esperanza/Git_Usage|git usage]] if you're new to git.

=== Dependencies ===

* XMMS2
** XMMS2 C++ bindings, which needs boost.
* Qt 4.2 or newer
* dns_sd (bonjour) for mDNS support

=== Build ===

Download tarball, extract it, run configure and then make. That should produce the binary.

For windows see here: [[Client:Esperanza/Windows_Build_Instructions|Windows Build Instructions]]

== Bugtracker ==

Report bugs and request features in the [http://bugs.xmms2.org/ XMMS2 bugtracker].
}}