This page is for ideas for clients that have yet to be made. 

=== Firefox / Konqueror Extension Client ===

For any particular webpage you may go to, this would give you a list of all audio files linked to on the page, and then via a toolbar or context menu, would allow you to do the following on a per file basis: Enqueue as next in playlist, Enqueue as last in playlist, Add to media library, or play now. If play now is chosen, then the current track should pick up right where it left off once that file is done playing.

=== Alarm Clock client === 

This should fade up the music over a period of 10 minutes to maximise dream recall. (sleep 30m; xmms2d stop works pretty well for going to sleep ;D )

Who needs a client... ;)
-----wakemeup.sh-----
  #!/bin/sh
  sleep 28800 &&
  while true
  do
    amixer sset Master 2+
    sleep 30
  done
-----wakemeup.sh-----

Adjust values as needed

=== DBUS ===

Isn't DBUS a better choice than a [http://git.xmms.se/?p=xmms2-devel.git;a=tree;h=82edc1f7fb700ae505455672fc6c1293bfd9dc2c;hb=708a7db5cedbd6f7d1559835079368d7e4134cf8;f=src/lib/xmmsipc proprietary] IPC protocol?
 
 Proprietary Software:
 Software which is privately owned or controlled is known as proprietary software. However, the extent to which proprietary 
 rights can be claimed or maintained in relation to software is a matter of considerable controversy (see software patent debate).

Use the correct terminology. But of course D-BUS is better then some closed source protocol, luckily it doesn't matter for xmms2.

[[Category:General]]