There are a number of client programs currently being developed for use with XMMS2. Some of them are very simple and perform only a handful of functions, while others are more fully featured.

If you are a new XMMS2 client developer, you're welcome to add your client to [[Clientlist | this list]] and drop by our [irc://chat.freenode.net/xmms2 IRC channel] to let us know what you're doing, so we may work closely together.
<br/>
'''See also''':
* [[Clientlist | A matrix of '''all''' available clients]]
* [[Contribs | Contributions to XMMS2]] (like shell scripts or keyboard bindings)
* [[Talk:XMMS2_Clients#How_to_add_a_new_client | How to add a new client]]
* [[Writing XMMS2 Clients]]

'''Note:''' While most other players give you an 'all-in-one' experience, when it comes to XMMS2 it can be worthwile to have several different clients running at once. Features like desktop integration, on-screen displays, etc. are mostly done in several clients written esp. for this task. Just have a look around!

= Main Clients =

== Graphical Clients ==

Actually, there are dozens of clients available which try to fit best into this purpose. Here are some recommendations, also based on activity of development and therefor availability:

=== Esperanza (QT4) ===

[[Client:Esperanza | Esperanza]] has a simple interface with a single playlist and let you search the media lib or add files from other sources easily. It also presents album art.

=== gxmms2 (GTK) ===

[[Client:gxmms2 | gxmms2]] presents itself with a small main window, but all basic functionality for playing, including a playlist editor.

=== Abraca (GTK) ===

[[Client:Abraca | Abraca]] is designed with collections in mind.

=== Blastwave (GTK) ===

[[Client:Blastwave | Blastwave]] in its current state features basic XMMS2 control: playlist managing, playback queues (experimental), playback control, MediaLib queries as well as a usable GTK2 interface with tray icon support.

=== Others ===

You can find lots other players in the [[Clientlist | Client matrix]]. Here are some (not all) other players, which are just good-fitting, or special in some ways:

* [[Client:eq | eq]] lets you play with the equalizer if your player doesn't handle it
* [[Client:Euphoria | Euphoria]] uses the Enlightenment Foundation Libraries
* [[Client:juxtapose | juxtapose]] is a very simple player which "just works"
* [[Client:Shellac | Shellac]] has a very customizable GUI
* [[Client:Sonus | Sonus]] is a GUI client that works with xmms2-devel
* [[Client:radiobar | radiobar]] is a GUI buttonbar client for radio use
* [[Client:Promoe | Promoe]] is a Qt4 based Winamp/Xmms clone

== Web Clients ==

* [[Client:TurboX2 | TurboX2]] is a player accessible via your web browser
* [[Client:XMMS2_Webterface | XMMS2 Webterface]] is a dead simple, configurable, themable web interface
* [[Client:xmms2swi | XMMS2SWI]] Simple web interface, small and works well with ALL browsers!

== Console Clients ==

* [[Client:XMMS2 CLI client | XMMS2 CLI client]] is the standard console application coming with XMMS2
* [[Client:gntxmms2 | gntxmms2]] provides a windowed console interface using libgnt
* [[Client:Cluck | Cluck]] is a TUI (windowed console) client with very light requirements: a recent xmms2d, pcre, curses, and optionally a few helper applications
* [[Client:kuechenstation | kuechenstation]] is a text mode client with scrolling title, playlist and medialib query

= Desktop Integration =

== General ==

* [[Client:gx2osd | gx2osd]] shows playing information as an On-Screen Display
* [[Client:xmms2-osd | xmms2-osd]] shows playing information as an On-Screen Display, intended to be used with beryl and the like.
* [[Client:snett | snett]] provides a small icon with popup-menu
* [[Client:xmms2_jump | xmms2_jump]] lets you quickly search your current playlist

== Gnome ==

* [[Client:XMMS2tray | XMMS2tray]] provides integration into the tray.
* [[Client:XmmsDeskbar | XmmsDeskbar]] works with the Gnome Deskbar.
* [[Client:GnomeDeskBar | GnomeDeskBar]] let you control a xmms2 client easily.

== KDE ==

== Others ==

* [[Client:Wmxmms2 | Wmxmms2]] is a dock-app for WindowMaker (or others, like Fluxbox)
* [[Client:LXMusic | LXMusic]] is a very simple player inside the LXDE environment
* [[Client:bbxmms2menu | bbxmms2menu]] is a blackbox menu with the basic controls
* [[Client:bbkeysxmms2 | bbkeysxmms2]] a list of suggested shortcut keys for bbkeys
* [[Client:FluxboxKeys | Fluxbox keys]] a simple list of shortcut keys for ~/.fluxbox/keys, and a way to run xmms2 at startup

= Integration Into Other Applications =

== GKrellM2 ==

* [[Client:gkrellxmms2 | gkrellxmms2]] enhances GKrellM2 and has many features

== X-Chat / IRSSI ==

* '''X-Chat:''' [[Client:EkoXMMS2 | EkoXMMS2]] lets you control XMMS2 within the application
* '''irssi:''' Both [[Client:ixmms2 | ixmms2]] and [[Client:xmms2Plugin | xmms2Plugin]] provide information and control within irssi
* '''X-Chat:''' [[Client:xmms2-xchat | xmms2-xchat]] xmms2-xchat plugin will show current playing information on X-Chat

== Audioscrobbler ==

* [[Client:XMMS2-Scrobbler | XMMS2-Scrobbler]] is an [http://www.audioscrobbler.com/ AudioScrobbler] client.

== Vim ==

* [[Client:vimxmms2 | vimxmms2]] is a XMMS2 client for Vim.

= Special Input Methods =

== Remote Control ==

* [[Client:lxmms2 | lxmms2]] lets you control XMMS2 with LIRC

== Mobile Phones ==

* [[Client:Harald | Harald]] uses JavaME and Bluetooth to be your music player on the phone

* [[Client:Remuco | Remuco]] is a system to remotely control XMMS2 (and other music player) with mobile devices supporting Bluetooth and JavaME.

[[Category: General]]
[[Category: Users]]
[[Category: Clients]]