= Introduction =

This is a quick introduction to working with Collections using the CLI
client.  If you don't know what a collection is, you might want to
read the [[Collections Concept]] page.

In short, a '''collection is a subset of the medialibrary'''.  It
therefore matches (or "contains") a set of media.  From there, it can
be used for many purposes, from organizing your music to feeding
random playlist.

= Collection structure and pattern =

A collection is represented as a '''graph structure''' composed of
group operators (union, intersection, complement), filters on
properties (match, has, etc) and static list of media.  The topography
of such a structure can be very complex, and is not necessarily easy
to expose to the user.  An advanced pattern syntax has been devised to
provide as much freedom as possible in that regard.

Its grammar may scare the faintest hearts, and another page will be written
to describe in details the syntax of the patterns. For now, you can simply
stick to the following, simple use of the pattern syntax:

 PATTERN := FILTER PATTERN
 FILTER  := property:value | value | ø

where property is the name of any media property (artist, album,
tracknr, etc). If the property is omitted, the value is searched in
several common fields (artist, album, title). A value string can contain
"*" and "?" wildcards.

Here are examples of valid patterns:

 artist:"Pink Floyd"
 artist:Air album:"Talkie Walkie"
 album:"Scorpio Rising" tracknr:5 year:2002
 Talisman (year<2000 OR l:*live*)

We will now show how to use the collection commands of the CLI.  To
get some help, you can simply type:

 $ xmms2 coll
 Available collection commands:
   save   [collname] [pattern] - Save a pattern as a collection
   rename         [oldname] [newname] - Rename a collection
   list   [namespace] - List all collections in a given namespace
   query  [collname] [order] - Display all the media in a collection
   queryadd       [collname] [order] - Add all media in a collection to active playlist
   find   [mid] [namespace] - Find all collections that contain the given media
   get    [collname] - Display the structure of a collection
   remove         [collname] - Remove a saved collection
   attr   [collname] [attr] [val] - Get/set an attribute for a saved collection

= Save a collection =

Now we have a way to represent a collection structure, we may want to
use it against the medialibrary.  First, let's save our collection on
the server:

 $ xmms2 coll save AirFirstTracks artist:Air tracknr:1

This creates a new collection named ''AirFirstTracks'' that matches
all first tracks of albums by Air.  The syntax of the save command is
the following:

 $ xmms2 coll save <collname> <pattern>


Collections on the server are partitioned in namespaces, and they can
be created in any of them.  By default, the ''Collections'' namespace
is selected, but collections in other namespaces can be referred to as
collname using the ''namespace/'' prefix:

 AirFirstTracks          # equivalent to Collections/AirFirstTracks
 Collections/"Foo Coll"
 Playlists/GreatPlaylist

However, only idlists can be created in the ''Playlists'' namespace,
so it is not possible to save one of our dynamic collection structures
(based on filters) in that namespace.

= More Complicated Collection Queries =

It is possible to create far more complicated collections.  Note that the values return by an "mlib search" call are the same values that will go into a collection using that query with a "coll save" call.

Finds all songs with either artist; similarily for AND and NOT.
 $ xmms2 mlib search "artist:Mr. Scruff" OR "artist:Mr. Crispy"

Finds all songs where the artist has "a" in the name, and the song title has "b"; this is case sensitive.
 $ xmms2 mlib search artist:'*a*' AND title:'*b*'

Same thing, but case insensitive.
 $ xmms2 mlib search artist~a AND title~b

All songs that have any value at all in the "rating" property.
 $ xmms2 mlib search +rating

All songs that have a rating less than or equal to 5, and similarily for >=, <, and >.
 $ xmms2 mlib search 'rating<=5'

Song id number 18 only
 $ xmms mlib search '#18'

All songs in the collection test1
 $ xmms mlib search in:test1

Example of grouping; all artist-has-a and title-has-b songs, plus all songs where the artist is PPK.  NOTE: Grouping does not properly work in DrJekyll; it has been fixed in the current -devel version, to be released as DrK.

 $ xmms2 mlib search '(' artist:'*a*' AND title:'*b*' ')' OR artist:PPK

= Rename a collection =

In case you want to rename a collection saved on the server, you can
simply use the ''rename'' command:

 $ xmms2 coll rename Foo Bar
 $ xmms2 coll rename Playlists/GreatPlaylist Playlists/AwesomePlaylist

The syntax of that command is straightforward:

 $ xmms2 coll rename <collname> <newname>

Again, the namespace can be specified as a prefix.  It must however be
noted that you cannot move a collection from one namespace to another,
and the following command is invalid:

 $ xmms2 coll rename AirFirstTracks Playlists/AirPlaylist  # invalid!

= List saved collections =

After you have saved a couple of collections on the server, you may
want to list them all.  This can be done using the ''list'' command:

 $ xmms2 coll list
 * Playlists Namespace:
 Hot Party!
 _active
 OtherPlaylist
 * Collections Namespace:
 AirFirstTracks
 Test Collection

For each namespace, we get the list of collections it contains. Note
that the _active playlist is simply a reference to the currently
active playlist.

It is also possible to only list the collections in one namespace by
passing it as argument:

 $ xmms2 coll list Collections
 AirFirstTracks
 Test Collection

The syntax of the ''list'' command is the following:

 $ xmms2 coll list [namespace]

where namespace is optional (by default, list collections for all
namespaces).

= Get the structure of a saved collection =

The list only gives us the name of the saved collections, but you may
want to check what the corresponding collection structure looks like.
This can be done using the ''get'' command:

 $ xmms2 coll get AirFirstTracks
 Intersection:
   Match ('artist', 'Air') for:
     Reference: 'All Media'
   Match ('tracknr', '1') for:
     Reference: 'All Media'

Again, we can refer to collections in other namespaces using the usual
prefix:

 $ xmms2 coll get Playlists/Other
 Idlist: (14461, 14462, 7226)

The syntax of the ''get'' command is the following:

 $ xmms2 coll get <collname>

= List the contents of a collection =

Now we have played with collections, it might be interesting to
actually display what media they match, i.e. their ''contents''.
For that, we use the ''query'' command:

 $ xmms2 coll query AirFirstTracks
 -[Result]--------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Id   | Artist            | Album                      | Title
 00102| Air               | The Virgin Suicides        | Playground Love
 00116| Air               | Talkie Walkie              | Venus
 00142| Air               | Moon Safari                | La Femme D'Argent
 00181| Air               | 10'000 Hz Legend           | Electronic Performers
 00192| Air               | Premiers Symptomes         | Modular mix
 00198| Air               | Everybody Hertz            | Don't Be Light
 ----------------------------------------------------------------[Count:     6]-----

By default, media are ordered by id.  You can change that by selecting
an ordering property:

 $ xmms2 coll query AirFirstTracks album
 -[Result]--------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Id   | Artist            | Album                      | Title
 00181| Air               | 10'000 Hz Legend           | Electronic Performers
 00198| Air               | Everybody Hertz            | Don't Be Light
 00142| Air               | Moon Safari                | La Femme D'Argent
 00192| Air               | Premiers Symptomes         | Modular mix
 00116| Air               | Talkie Walkie              | Venus
 00102| Air               | The Virgin Suicides        | Playground Love
 ----------------------------------------------------------------[Count:     6]-----

The syntax of the ''query'' command is the following:

 $ xmms2 coll query <collname> [order]

where ''order'' is an optional comma-separated list of properties to order
by.

= Add a collection to the active playlist =

To add the contents of a collection to the active playlist use:

 $ xmms2 coll queryadd <collname> [order]

The syntax of the ''queryadd'' command is identical that of the ''query'' command.

= Remove a collection =

If you have had enough of a collection, you can just remove it:

 $ xmms2 remove AirFirstTracks

Note that if you any other collection had a reference to a collection
you remove, the reference will be replaced by the actual structure of
the removed collection, thus keeping other collections intact.

The syntax of the remove command is the following:

 $ xmms2 coll remove <collname>

= Find collections matching a given media =

It is also possible to perform the inverse of query, that is to find
all collections that match a given media.  This is done using the
''find'' command:

 $ xmms2 coll find 181
 * Playlists Namespace:
 * Collections Namespace:
 AirFirstTracks

If we want to restrict the search to one namespace, we simply append
it as an argument:

 $ xmms2 coll find 181 Collections
 AirFirstTracks

The syntax of the ''find'' command is the following:

 $ xmms2 coll find <mid> [namespace]

= Changing the type of a playlist =

Playlists have a ''type'', which can be one of the following:

* '''list''': a normal static list.
* '''queue''': a list where songs are popped once they are played.
* '''pshuffle''': a Party Shuffle is a queue which is automatically padded with new songs randomly fetched from a given collection.

To learn more about these types, read the section about
[[Collections_Concept#List_Operators | List Operators]].

To get and set the type of a playlist, use the ''type'' command of the
playlist module:

 $ xmms2 playlist type Other
 list

We can also change the type to ''queue'' using the same command:

 $ xmms2 playlist type Other queue

For the ''pshuffle'' type, the source collection (input operand) of
the shuffle must be specified:

 $ xmms2 playlist type Other pshuffle AirFirstTracks
 $ xmms2 list Other
 ->[0/102] Air - Playground Love (03:32)
   [1/116] Air - Venus (04:04)
   [2/116] Air - Venus (04:04)
   [3/192] Air - Modular mix (05:59)
   [4/181] Air - Electronic Performers (05:35)
   [5/142] Air - La Femme D'Argent (07:11)
   [6/102] Air - Playground Love (03:32)
   [7/116] Air - Venus (04:04)
   [8/192] Air - Modular mix (05:59)
   [9/181] Air - Electronic Performers (05:35)
 
 Total playtime: 0:47:00

The playlist has been filled with 10 random media from the
AirFirstTracks collection!  To change that number, let's have a look
at collection attributes.

The syntax of the ''type'' command is the following:

 $ xmms2 playlist type <plname> <type> [options]

= Setting attributes =

Collection operators can have arbitrary ''attributes''.  Some have a
special meaning depending of the context or the type of operator.  One
particular example is the attributes of ''queue'' and ''pshuffle''
playlists: both have a '''history''' attribute that specifies how many
entries are kept after being played before they are popped; the
pshuffle also has an '''upcoming''' attribute that specifies how many
upcoming entries are to be fetched from the source collection.

We can use the attr command of the CLI to get and set attributes of
saved collections.  First, let's list all the attributes of a
collection:

 $ xmms2 coll attr Playlists/Other
 [position] -1
 [size] 10

You can also limit the output to a single attribute by specifying it
as an extra argument:

 $ xmms2 coll attr Playlists/Other size
 [size] 10

The position and size attributes are internal attributes for
collections used as playlists, and you shouldn't change them directly.
However, let's set the ''upcoming'' attribute to 3:

 $ xmms2 coll attr Playlists/Other upcoming 3

We can see the effect if we reinitialize the playlist:

 $ xmms2 clear Other
 $ xmms2 list Other
 ->[0/192] Air - Modular mix (05:59)
   [1/102] Air - Playground Love (03:32)
   [2/142] Air - La Femme D'Argent (07:11)

You can experiment some more by setting the ''history'' attribute for
queue and pshuffle playlists.

= End Credits =

This is merely an introduction to the possibilities offered by
collections in XMMS2.  You are welcome to explore more possibilities
in your own client or come on IRC to bother theefer about bugs or
broken ideas!

[[Category:Collections]]