Here we collect all information about developing on/against XMMS2. I also store my strange ideas here, if you don't have anything better todo you can always try to comment on them.

== XMMS2 Technical Details ==

For those who want to know more about how it works, and how to get clients to play nice.

* [[Design of XMMS2]]
* [[The Medialib]]
* [http://xmms2.xmms.se/doxygen/current/ Doxygen documentation]
* [http://xmms2.xmms.se/epydoc/index.html Python bindings documentation]
* [[Writing XMMS2 Clients]] (''incomplete'')
* [[XMMS2 IPC Protocol]]

== Code.. and bugs! ==

For those who want to hack on XMMS2 itself, or report bugs and such things. Before you start to hack you should read the [[XMMS2 Coding Style]].

* [[XMMS2 Coding Style]]
* [http://bugs.xmms2.xmms.se/ XMMS2 Bug Tracking System]
* [[Reporting bugs]]
* [[Submitting code]]
* [[Download_XMMS2|Source Code]]
* [http://git.xmms.se/HOWTO-FOR-XMMS2-DEVELS.txt Small git HOWTO] and related [[ChangeLog Format]]
* [[ChangeLog Format]]

== Policies and guidelines ==

Policies and guidelines about processes and services related to the project as well as guidelines for client developers.

=== XMMS2 ===
* [[XMMS2 Development Process]]
* [[Release Checklist]]
* [[Versioning]]
* [[XMMS2:Wikipolicy | Wiki usage guidelines]]
* [[XMMS2:Packagerpolicy | Downstream Maintainer Guidelines]]
* [[Roadmap]]

=== Clients ===
* [[Generic properties policy]]

== Proposals ==
* [[Testing]]
* [[Collaborative Playlist Management]]

== Ideas ==

Here are some ideas about XMMS2, if you want to hack on them or comment them please follow the links. *NOTE:* Don't just add a new thing here, make sure it doesn't exist (don't forget to look at the [[Contribs]] page) and preferrably discuss the matter on the [[http://lists.xmms.org/mailman/listinfo/xmms2-devel mailinglist]] or on [[About#Contact_info|irc]] first.

=== Architecture ===
* [[Transforms]]
* [[Generated IPC]]
* [[List of features required for proper sub-tune support]]
* [[Container format support]]
* [[Mobile platforms]]

=== Playlist ===
* [[Smart playlists]]
* [[Collections]]
* [[Playlist refactor]]
* [[Hierarchical playlists]]
* [[Playlist Plugins as Client]]

=== Clients ===
* [[MDNS]]
* [[Album Covers]]
* [[Bash tab completion for the CLI]]
* [[Bemused Client]]
* [[Client Ideas]]
* [[Client capabilities and intercommunication]]
* [[Client for writing tags to files]]

=== Misc ===
* [[Music Sharing]]
* [[General Notify support]]
* [[Support for radio output like icecast]]
* [[Gapless Playback]]
* [[Concerns after Log table removal]]

=== Older Ideas ===
* [[XMMS2 as a DJ station]]
* [[MIDI client]]
* [[medialib querier]]
* [[Support for clients to write to the medialib]]
* [[Random songs support]]
* [[Automatic Manual Page Generation]]

[[Category: Developer info]]