It would be really nice (imho) if playlists could contain playlists.
So you could e.g. create a playlist for an artist and sub-playlists for each album of this artist.
Then you could choose to play all songs of this artist or just one specific album.

Does this make sense? I think it would be a nice feature...

----

Is this entirely necessary? This is why we have the media library. 

This query would select all songs by an artist: select distinct m1.id from Media m1 join Media m2 on 
m2.id = m1.id left join Media m3 on m3.id = m1.id and m3.key='album' left join Media m4 on m4.id = m1.id and m4.key='tracknr' where m1.key='artist' and m1.value='<artist>' and m2.key='title' order by m3.value, m4.value;

To get the user experience of your idea would just require a client that generated a tree view of all artists, and then within each aritst was an entry for each album. 

--[[User:Alesbl|Alesbl]] 10:05, 31 Jan 2006 (CET)

----

Maybe [[Collections]] is what you really want?

-- [[User:Anders Gustafsson|Anders Gustafsson]] 10:08, 31 Jan 2006 (CET)

----

The artist-album example was just an example. Surely it would be possible to implement that behaviour with a medialib query, but other scenarios could include "songs with a distinct mood" parent of "album that I like". 

That is somehow similar to Collections I suppose. But collections seem to be harder to manage for an average user.
In the end it is probably an issue of the user interface.

From a commandline point of view (original xmms2 client) the hierarchical playlists seem to me to be easier to handle.

--[[User:MITService|MITService]] 09:54, 1 Feb 2006 (CET)

----
Another reason that you may want it, is in situations involving Party Shuffle. Like perhaps I want to Party Shuffle on a bunch of music, but I always want two (or however many songs to follow each other). For example, I find that whenever I hear "So Long" by Guster, I want it to be followed by "Two Points For Honesty." Although, I guess this is more of having a list within a collection, but similar premise.

[[User:Snoopdugiedog|Snoopdugiedog]] 19:28, 15 May 2008 (UTC)