There are currently two methods to use hotkeys with XMMS2.  The '''xmms2-hotkey''' client is more advanced, but requires a few extra steps to configure.

== Using xmms2-hotkey ==

The [[Client:xmms2-hotkey|xmms2-hotkey]] client can control XMMS2 via hotkeys (which include mouse buttons.)  It can use X-Windows hotkeys, but is also capable of using evdev devices if X11 is unavailable (or to bind actions to buttons that X11 can't see, but evdev can.)

Unlike XBindKeys, '''xmms2-hotkey''' can also use dual-hotkey combinations, to allow one hotkey to "activate" a whole host of other keys.

== Using XBindKeys ==

In this example setup we're going to use the following keys:
* Control + Shift + Z     -> Previous track
* Control + Shift + X     -> Play
* Control + Shift + C     -> Pause
* Control + Shift + V     -> Stop
* Control + Shift + B     -> Next track
* Control + Shift + Left  -> Skip back 5 seconds
* Control + Shift + Right -> Skip forward 5 seconds
* Control + Shift + Up    -> Increase volume by 1/32 (using alsa's ''amixer'' command)
* Control + Shift + Down  -> Decrease volume by 1/32
* Control + Shift + L     -> Launch esperanza
* Control + Shift + G     -> Launch gxmms2

(The Z X C V B keys are the keys in winamp and xmms 1 for prev, play, pause, stop and next respectively).

First, download and install [http://hocwp.free.fr/xbindkeys/xbindkeys.html#download XBindKeys]. Debian users can just do 'apt-get install xbindkeys'.

XBindKeys reads key bindings from ~/.xbindkeysrc. If you've previously used XBindKeys, you already have an ~/.xbindkeysrc. If you don't have it, you'll have to create it (open your favourite text editor, type or paste then save as ~/.xbindkeysrc). The configuration options for our example are:

 # xmms 2 keybindings
  
 "xmms2 prev"
    Control+Shift + z
 "xmms2 play"
    Control+Shift + x
 "xmms2 pause"
    Control+Shift + c
 "xmms2 stop"
    Control+Shift + v
 "xmms2 next"
    Control+Shift + b
 "xmms2 seek +5"
    Control+Shift + Right
 "xmms2 seek -5"
    Control+Shift + Left
 "amixer sset Master 1+"
    Control+Shift + Up
 "amixer sset Master 1-"
    Control+Shift + Down
 "esperanza"
    Control+Shift + l
 "gxmms2"
    Control+Shift + g

Put these in ~/.xbindkeysrc and run 'xbindkeys' at a console.

To verify that it worked, press Control + Shift + X. If any is in the playlist, music should start playing, or start from the beggining of the track if it was already playing.

To verify some more, run 'xbindkeys_show'. A pop-up window should appear with the list of bound keys. These keys should be in the list.