{{Navbar}}

This page covers the process of installing XMMS2 from source code. You may also use [[Download XMMS2#Binary_Packages | binary packages]] if you want.

== Obtaining the source ==

Check the [[Download XMMS2 | download]] page for information on how to obtain the XMMS2 source code.

== Dependencies ==

You will '''need''' the following things to build XMMS2.

* [http://www.python.org/ Python] (>=2.2.1)
* [http://www.scons.org/ SCons]. (>= 0.96.90)
* [http://www.gtk.org/ GLib] (>= 2.6.0)
* [http://www.sqlite.org SQLite] (3.2.x) (preferably at least 3.2.4 for good performance)

The following apt-get line will install the necessary packages on a Debian system (at least sarge)  "aptitude install debmake debhelper scons python2.3 python2.3-dev libsdl-ttf2.0-dev libflac-dev libspeex-dev libmodplug-dev libmad0-dev libvorbis-dev libasound2-dev libspeex-dev libsqlite3-dev"

These libraries are not '''needed''' for building xmms2d itself, but will add extra functionality you might need. You will probably want MAD at the very least as without it, you can't play MP3s.

*For transport plugins:
** [http://curl.haxx.se Curl] (>= 7.11.2)
*For decoder plugins:
** [http://www.underbit.com/products/mad/ MAD] (Ubuntu and debian users will want libmad0-dev)
** [http://www.audiocoding.com/ FAAD]
** [http://www.xiph.org Vorbisfile]
** [http://sidplay2.sourceforge.net/ SIDplay2]
** [http://www.geocities.com/SiliconValley/Lakes/5147/resid/ reSID]
*For output plugins:
** [http://www.alsa-project.org ALSA]
*For language bindings (required by some clients):
** [http://www.cosc.canterbury.ac.nz/~greg/python/Pyrex/ Pyrex] (>=0.9.3) - For python bindings, NOTE that pyrex generates code that gcc4 does NOT compile, you need an older gcc.
** [http://www.ruby-lang.org/ Ruby] (>= 1.8) - For Ruby bindings.

For debian, one can use:
"apt-get install python2.3-pyrex python2.3-dev ruby1.8 ruby1.8-dev"

== Platform-specific notes ==
Some supported platforms may have variations on build requirements:
* [[FreeBSD]]
* [[OS_X]]
* [[Windows]]
* [[NetBSD]]

== Configuring ==
Run ''scons'' to first run the configuration. Tweak the options, running ''scons CONFIG=1'' each time till satisfied. You can exclude certain optional modules by running ''scons EXCLUDE="module1 module2 module3"'' where module names are configuration groups listed in ''xmmsconf.py''. (Sorry, there is currently no user-friendly way of listing the modules )

== Compiling ==
Simply run ''scons'' to compile, or ''scons PREFIX=/some/custom/path'' if you plan on installing XMMS2 in ''/some/custom/path''.

== Installing ==

Run ''scons install'' to install packages to their default path. You can also install it to a non standard path by adding the PREFIX option to scons. Like this:

 scons PREFIX=/usr/local/xmms
 scons PREFIX=/usr/local/xmms install

To only change the path the manual pages are installed in provide the MANDIR option (it defaults to $PREFIX/man).

The INSTALLDIR option provides a way to prepend a path to ''all'' install pathes for package builders. When this option is set xmms2 still expects the files to be in the location without INSTALLDIR prepended.

== Cleaning up ==

''scons -c'' will clean the objects and binaries.

== Uninstalling ==
''scons -c install'' will uninstall any files installed by ''scons install''. Alternatively, ''scons -c /path/'' will uninstall any files installed under ''/path/''
For example, if you installed xmms2 under /usr/local (default), run ''scons -c /usr/local''

== See Also ==
* [[Download XMMS2]]
* [[Using the application]]

[[Category: General]]