Since the 20th of November 2006, the XMMS2 team has conducted fairly regular meetings on IRC to discuss various issues relating to the project. Unlike the main [irc://chat.freenode.net/xmms2 #xmms2] channel, where we mostly discuss various technical and offtopic issues at various times of the day, the meeting channel focuses more on project administrative issues and major technical issues, as well as long-lived issues that haven't progressed much (much less been resolved). The rationale is that this process will help the team focus more on getting things done on a timely basis, rather than leaving issues open indefinitely.

== Meeting Protocol ==
;Location: [irc://chat.freenode.net/xmms2-meeting #xmms2-meeting] on Freenode
;Time: 13:00 UTC, Saturdays (current)
;Length: Approx. 1 hour (estimated)
;Organiser (chairperson): [[Sham Chukoury]]
;Agenda: [[IRC Meeting/Agenda]]
;Minutes: [[IRC Meeting/Minutes]]
;Archive: [[IRC Meeting/Archive]]

=== Pre-meeting ===
# Organiser creates agenda for next meeting and posts it to [[IRC Meeting/YYYY-MM-DD/Agenda]] and updates the [[IRC Meeting/Agenda]] redirect.
# Organiser announces next meeting on [http://lists.xmms.se/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/xmms2-devel mailing list], most preferably 4 days before the meeting, at the latest. Announcement includes proposed agenda.
# Participants prepare a list of issues they want to address. If there are any major issues to talk about, that haven't been addressed by the proposed agenda, participants negotiate with organiser to include them. Even if the organiser cannot fit a certain issue into the agenda (e.g. due to time constraints), it may be brought up after the meeting. That is, agenda items are to be given priority.
#* Alternatively, participants may edit the latest agenda on the [[IRC Meeting/Agenda | wiki]], but it's up to the organiser to take those modifications into account when starting the next meeting.

=== Meeting ===
# Participants join channel and wait for organiser to announce the start of the meeting.
# Organiser asks each participant to announce their [[#Status_announcements | status]].
# Organiser provides a topic that participants may discuss.
# Organiser declares the issue resolved after consensus has been reached, too much time has been taken and the issue must be deferred, or the discussion should be moved to another medium, such as the mailing list.
;Object-Oriented Summary:
 organiser = Organiser.new('Sham Chukoury')
 organiser.puts('Meeting started!')
 participants.each do |p|
   organiser.puts("#{p}: your statements?")
   p.respond!
 end
 issues.each do |issue|
   organiser.puts(issue.topic)
   issue.discuss!
   organiser.puts(issue.resolution)
 end
 organiser.puts('Meeting adjourned!')

=== Wrapup ===
# Participants may assign action items (things to do), and report on the progress of these items at the next meeting.
# Organiser summarises meeting (possibly with [[IRC Meeting/Minutes |meeting minutes]]) - such a summary can be useful for planning subsequent meetings (e.g. new agenda items).
#* Note that [[IRC Meeting/Minutes]] should be a redirect to the latest available meeting minutes, with a title like ''IRC Meeting/YYYY-MM-DD/Minutes'', just like the Agenda pages.

=== Post-meeting ===
#coffee
#donuts
#code

== Meeting channel rules and guidelines ==
* The channel is muted (+m) - participants will be automatically voiced (+v) when joining the channel, but may be devoiced (-v) if they are disruptive.

== Status announcements ==
At the start of each meeting, participants should indicate their current status (wrt project issues) using the following keywords:
;DONE: What participant has done since last meeting
;TODO: Things participant is /planning/ to do until next meeting.
;BLOCKED: Items participant can't progress on, due to various factors (to be discussed).
;DISCUSS: Item to be discussed during meeting. About the code, not about the project, ie things that needs to be discussed to be able to achive what is in "TODO". (more generic discussions should be put on the agenda)

When asked by the organiser, the participant should paste these prepared lines into the channel. The lines should be as short and informative as possible (that's why the need to be prepared in advance, so there is time to write it in the most compact and yet informative form). For example:

 <FooMaster> joe: what's your status?
 <joe> DONE: Implemented libkorv, fixed BeOS port
 <joe> TODO: More documentation
 <joe> BLOCKED: Need git repo for libkorv
 <joe> DISCUSS: Depend on bierlib or pilsnerlib

Please note that multiple items should be on the same line. For example:
 <joe> DONE: Implemented libkorv
 <joe> DONE: fixed BeOS port 
should be written as:
 <joe> DONE: Implemented libkorv, fixed BeOS port

[[Category:Policies and guidelines]]
[[Category:IRC Meeting]]