Welcome! This is the place for finding out everything about the XMMS2 Logo competition!

This competition will select a Logotype to use in all XMMS2 related sites and programs. Follow the "How to contend" below.

== How to contend? ==
# Make a cool logotype in '''scalable format'''
# Make the same cool logotype in '''16x16 pixeled format'''
# Name the logotype '''your_email-logoname-date.svg''' and '''your_email-logoname-date.png'''
# Submit the logo to '''contest@xmms.se''' as a '''ZIP or TAR.GZ''' file.
## The logos has to be submitted in '''SVG format and PNG'''.
# We will put your logos on our blog [http://xmms2contest.blogspot.com/] and let everyone comment on it.
# You can re-submit the logo after you got feedback from the blog. '''Re-submission is allowed as many times as you like.'''
# After the '''13th of April 2007 00:00 UTC''' we will not accept more submissions.
# Shortly after everyone who has contributed to XMMS2 can rank the logotypes, the one with most points will be selected.
# Winner will get his price!
# Logotype will be printed / used and abused everywhere!

== Rules ==
* Logo must be in scalable format (SVG) and a proof-of-concept 16x16 version of the logo must be sent also
* Logo must be submitted before 13th of April 2007 00:00 UTC.
* Copyright of the winning submission will be handed over to XMMS2 Team and they can use it as they see fit
* Potential taxes on the prize will be payed by the winner
* Result of the contest can not be overruled or questioned
* Tobias Rundström and Anders Gustafsson will have veto.

== What are we looking for? ==
* Something clean and simple
* Works in both color and black / white
* Not the same old speaker, cd, note thing that all other projects have
* XMMS2 should be as ONE word, not XMMS + 2. The 2 is as important as the XMMS.
* XMMS stands for X(Cross)-platform Music Multiplexer System
* A cool tagline will get bonus points