SQL QUERIES SOON TO BE DEPRECATED! See [[Collections]] instead.


Here are some examples of some SQL queries that can be run on the XMMS2 medialib, shown here as performed directly on the database, via ''sqlite''.


Select all genres:
  sqlite> SELECT value 
          FROM Media 
          WHERE key="genre"
          GROUP BY LOWER (value) ORDER BY value;
  Alternative
  Blues
  Classic Rock
  Easy Listening
  Electronic
  ...


Select all artists (using the artists view):
  sqlite> SELECT * 
          FROM artists 
  Alien Vs. The Cat
  Apoptygma Berzerk
  Astrix
  ...


Select all albums by an artist:

  sqlite> SELECT * 
          FROM albums 
          WHERE artist LIKE "S.P.O.C.K";
  S.P.O.C.K|A Piece Of The Action (Disc 1 - The Singles)
  S.P.O.C.K|A Piece Of The Action (Disc 2 - The rest)


Select five random songs:
  sqlite> SELECT * 
          FROM songs 
          ORDER BY RANDOM() LIMIT 5;
  mesh              |fragmente          |08 - So Important (original ac |-1 |319
  Kent (Sweden)     |Vapen & Ammunition |FF                             |8  |72
  Air               |Moon Safari        |sexy boy [cassius remix]       |2  |165
  Kultiration       |Om Gaia            |Babylon faller                 |-1 |60
  Chemical Brothers |Digweed Kiss100    |Get You High (feat. K-Os)      |-1 |154


Select five random songs from the 'Rock' genre:
  sqlite> SELECT m1.id, m1.value, m2.value, m3.value 
          FROM Media m1, Media m2, Media m3 
          WHERE m1.key="genre" AND m1.value="Rock" 
           AND m2.id=m1.id AND m2.key="title" 
           AND m3.id=m1.id AND m3.key="artist" 
          ORDER BY RANDOM() LIMIT 5;
   5 | Rock | Fix you          | Coldplay
  84 | Rock | Rosor & Palmblad | Kent
  14 | Rock | Til Kingdom come | Coldplay
  80 | Rock | Järnspöken       | Kent
  10 | Rock | Low              | Coldplay

(yeah, coldplay is not rock.. i'll update that tag asap ;)


Select five random albums:
  sqlite> SELECT * 
          FROM albums 
          ORDER BY RANDOM() LIMIT 5;
  Allister Brimble      |Immortal
  C-Mos                 |2 Million Ways (Axwell Remix)
  Nathan G              |Promo Only UK Underground Beat
  The chemical brothers |Believe
  the knife             |pass this on CDM



An example of what you might find in the property table for a medialib entry:
  sqlite> SELECT * 
          FROM Media 
          WHERE id=252;
  252| added       | 1119380208
  252| album       | Med Solen I Ögonen
  252| album_id    | 6688440a-58f8-4995-aec2-7444ef8c9100
  252| artist      | Lars Winnerbäck
  252| artist_id   | 1723c867-d5c5-4a61-a40b-8c04fa7acf1b
  252| bitrate     | 256
  252| duration    | 298000
  252| laststarted | 1119382203
  252| lmod        | 1092834093
  252| mime        | application/ogg
  252| resolved    | 1
  252| title       | Pollenchock & Stjärnfall
  252| track_id    | 5faafcbc-a286-4168-91a1-d14fa98b3fc1
  252| tracknr     | 6
  252| url         | file:///music/Lars Winnerbäck/Med Solen I Ögonen/06-Pollenchock & Stjärnfall.ogg

(Note that this data differs from entry to entry)

Select the name and size (number of songs) of all the playlists:

  sqlite> SELECT name, COUNT(entry) AS size
          FROM Playlist
          LEFT JOIN PlaylistEntries ON id=playlist_id
          GROUP BY playlist_id;
  name        size      
  ----------  ----------
  emptylist   0         
  autosaved   3         
  test        2         


Add all the unrated songs to your playlist, written in a MUCH better way:

 xmms2 mlib queryadd "select m1.id as id from Media m1 left join Media m2 on
    m1.id = m2.id and m2.key='rating' where m1.key = 'url' and m2.value is null"

Sorry for the long line, but I put this in cron(SHELL=bash), should remove any poorely rated songs automagicaly.  For testing only run this every 10min, also notice there is no locking so many instances can ruin your whole day.

 */10 * * * * xmms2 remove $(data=$(xmms2 mlib query "select id from Media where key='rating' and value = 1" | cut -f3 -d\ ); for ech in $(xmms2 list | head -n-2 | tr ']' '[' | cut -f2 -d'['); do echo "$data" | grep -q "^$(echo $ech | cut -f2 -d/)$" && { pos=$(echo $ech | cut -f1 -d/); echo $pos; }; done)

This worked better then the above, but depends on awk.  Put this in a script called from bash, I guess you could turn it into a crontab.  As you can see it also can remove duplicated unrated songs and will not call remove if there is nothing todo.

 data=$( {
  xmms2 mlib query "select id from Media where key='rating' and value = 1"
 # xmms2 mlib query "select m1.id as unrated from Media m1 left join
 #	Media m2 on m1.id = m2.id and m2.key='rating' where
 #	m1.key = 'url' and m2.value is null"
  xmms2 list |
    sed 's%^.*\[\([^/[:space:]]*\)/\([^][:space:]]*\)\].*$%list = \2 \1%'
  } | awk '
    /id = /	{ id[$3] = 1; }
    /unrated = /	{ unrated[$3] = 1; }
    /list = /	{
	if ($3 in list && $3 in unrated) print $4;
	list[$3] = list[$3] " " $4;
    }
    END		{ for (tmp in id) if (tmp in list) print list[tmp]; }
  '
 )
 [ "$data" ] && xmms2 remove $data;

Select id, artist and title (from all songs, including those without title and/or artist):

Use this to "fully" search for id's that have a specific artist and a specific title.

 SELECT 
  m.id,
  artist.value AS vartist,
  title.value AS vtitle 
 FROM Media AS m 
 LEFT JOIN Media AS arist ON(
   artist.id = m.id AND
   artist.key = "%%your-artist%%")
 LEFT JOIN Media AS title ON(
   title.id = m.id AND
   title.key = "%%your-title%%")
 WHERE m.key = "url";

"WHERE m.key = "url";" is added because of you want to JOIN on only 1 record per id and key = url is the only key which always exists. If you only want to see the the items with a arist, you can leave LEFT before "LEFT JOIN Media AS arist".

ToDo:
  Looking for a way to clean up the active playlist, something to put in cron that might run every 5 minuets and auto-remove any song with a rating of 0.
  An insert/update so rating songs(ect) can be scripted.
  A overview or map, listing table names, descriptions, and relations.

Related links:
* http://www.sqlite.org/
* http://www.sqlite.org/vdbe.html
* http://web.utk.edu/~jplyon/sqlite/SQLite_optimization_FAQ.html

This tool might be useful to optimize queries.
* http://www.sqlite.org/cvstrac/wiki?p=IdxChk

[[Category:XMMS2 Technical Details]]