== MPRIS v2.0 metadata guidelines ==

It is recommended that xesam metadata fields (prefixed by "xesam:") are used wherever possible.  This allows for natural extension of the specification in a standard way.

There are also a few MPRIS-specific fields that are intended for interaction with other methods in the specification.  These are prefixed with "mpris:".

Any metadata fields that are not part of a xesam ontology or defined in this document should be prefixed with a different tag, such as "totem:" or "kde:".

=== Types ===

==== List of Strings ====

Note that some types that you might expect to be strings are, in fact, "lists of strings".  These should be sent using the "as" D-Bus type (array of string).

==== Date/Time ====

Date/time fields should be sent as strings in ISO 8601 extended format.  If the timezone is known (eg: for xesam:lastPlayed), the internet profile format of ISO 8601, as specified in [http://www.apps.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3339.html#sec-5.6 RFC 3339], should be used.

For example: "2007-04-29T13:56+01:00" for 29th April 2007, four minutes to 2pm, in a time zone 1 hour ahead of UTC.

==== URI ====

URIs should be sent as strings, and should be suitably encoded.

=== Fields ===

==== MPRIS-specific ====

===== mpris:trackid =====
String: A unique identity for this track within the context of an MPRIS object (eg: tracklist).

===== mpris:length =====
64-bit integer: The duration of the track in microseconds.

===== mpris:artUrl =====
[[#URI|URI]]: The location of an image representing the track or album.

==== Common Xesam properties ====
Common audio properties from the Xesam specification:

===== xesam:album =====
String: The album name.

===== xesam:albumArtist =====
[[#List of Strings|List of Strings]]: The album artist(s).

===== xesam:artist =====
[[#List of Strings|List of Strings]]: The track artist(s).

===== xesam:asText =====
String: The track lyrics.

===== xesam:audioBPM =====
Integer: The speed of the music, in beats per minute.

===== xesam:autoRating =====
Float: An automatically-generated rating, based on things such as how often it has been played.

[FIXME: what scale?  0.0 to 1.0?]

===== xesam:comment =====
[[#List of Strings|List of Strings]]: A (list of) freeform comment(s).

===== xesam:composer =====
[[#List of Strings|List of Strings]]: The composer(s) of the track.

===== xesam:contentCreated =====
[[#Date/Time|Date/Time]]: When the track was created.  Usually only the year component will be useful.

===== xesam:discNumber =====
Integer: The disc number on the album that this track is from.

===== xesam:firstUsed =====
[[#Date/Time|Date/Time]]: When the track was first played.

===== xesam:genre =====
[[#List of Strings|List of Strings]]: The genre(s) of the track.

===== xesam:lastUsed =====
[[#Date/Time|Date/Time]]: When the track was last played.

===== xesam:lyricist =====
[[#List of Strings|List of Strings]]: The lyricist(s) of the track.

===== xesam:title =====
String: The track title.

===== xesam:trackNumber =====
Integer: The track number on the album disc.

===== xesam:url =====
[[#URI|URI]]: The URL of the file.  Local files use the file:// schema.

===== xesam:useCount =====
Integer: The number of times the track has been played.

===== xesam:userRating =====
Float: A user-specified rating.

[FIXME: what scale?  0.0 to 1.0?]

== MPRIS v1.0 Metadata guidelines ==

Below is a proposed, minimal list of standard field names with a description of intended use. No single or group of field names is mandatory.
These recommendations are intended for implementations of the MPRIS v1.0

=== Informational ===

==== "location" ====
(string) Url to the media (local files are represented as a file:// url) 

==== "title" ====
(string) Name

==== "artist" ====
(string) Name of artist or band performing the work

==== "album" ====
(string) Name of compilation the work is part of

==== "tracknumber" ====
(string) The position if it's part of a larger set, it may have to be converted to an integer.
This MAY be extended with a "/" character and a numeric string containing the total number of elements in the set. E.g. "69/1337".

==== "time" ====
(uint32) The duration in seconds

==== "mtime" ====
(uint32) The duration in milliseconds

==== "genre" ====
(string) The genre.
This MAY begin with a numerical value reflecting the genre in a previously known array of genres, such as ID3 genres.
See http://www.linuxselfhelp.com/HOWTO/MP3-HOWTO-13.html#ss13.3

==== "comment" ====
(string) A comment about the work

==== "rating" ====
(uint32) A "taste" rate value, out of 5. ''0-5 or 1-5?''

==== "year" ====
(uint32) The year when the performing was realized, i.e. 2007.

==== "date" ====
(uint32) When the performing was realized, for precise needs.
It is represented as epoch, i.e. the number of seconds since « 00:00:00 1970-01-01 UTC »

=== "arturl" ===
(string) An URI to an image associated with the work

=== Informational for external services ===

==== "asin" ====
(string) Amazon Standard Identification Number

==== "puid fingerprint" ====
(string) MusicDNS audio fingerprint id
http://wiki.musicbrainz.org/PUID

==== "mb track id" ====
(string) The relative URI as defined in http://wiki.musicbrainz.org/TrackID

==== "mb artist id" ====
(string) 

==== "mb artist sort name" ====
(string) http://wiki.musicbrainz.org/ArtistName

==== "mb album id" ====
(string) 

==== "mb release date" ====
(string) 

==== "mb album artist" ====
(string) 

==== "mb album artist id" ====
(string) 

==== "mb album artist sort name" ====
(string) 

=== Technical ===

==== "audio-bitrate" ====
(uint32) The number of bits per second for audio track

==== "audio-samplerate" ====
(uint32) The number of samples per second for audio track

==== "video-bitrate" ====
(uint32) The number of bits per second for video track