'''Here is the quick guide:'''

*Make sure you have sourced neuros-env
** source /wherever/it/is/installed/neuros-bsp/neuros-env
* Grab http://people.xmms2.org/~andersg/xmms2-DrHouse-neuros-OSD-buildenv.tar.gz
* Untar it
** tar xzf xmms2-DrHouse-neuros-OSD-buildenv.tar.gz
*enter the directory
**cd xmms2-build
*grab some extra sources (do NOT untar)
** XMMS2 itself: http://switch.dl.sourceforge.net/sourceforge/xmms2/xmms2-0.2DrHouse.tar.bz2
** glib: ftp://ftp.gtk.org/pub/glib/2.12/glib-2.12.4.tar.bz2
** libmad: ftp://ftp.mars.org/pub/mpeg/libmad-0.15.1b.tar.gz
** sqlite: http://www.sqlite.org/sqlite-3.3.8.tar.gz
*make a /mnt/tmpfs directory where stuff is installed
**sudo mkdir /mnt/tmpfs; sudo chown $(whoami) /mnt/tmpfs
*Run build script
**bash BUILD-XMMS2
*Wait
*Now you have an XMMS2 directory in /mnt/tmpfs.
*<insert step here to strip down the directory, most things are _not_ needed) 
*Copy this XMMS2 directory to a memory card/usb-stick/usb-harddrive
*telnet to the OSD
*Kill the mainapp
*enter the XMMS2 directory
*Run run-xmms2.sh in that directory
**sh run-xmms2.sh
*On your host computer connect to the osd with an xmms2 client, such as esperanza http://people.xmms2.org/~tru/esperanza/0.2/esperanza-0.2.2-winxp.exe using tcp://192.168.1.100:9667/ as path.
*Time to make a nice client to be run _on_ the OSD! / integrate a client in the mainapp.


'''Some details about some of the tricks used'''

The libs and xmms2 likes to be installed in a static place. But with all this memorycards support it might end up in a number of different places. The remedy is to install it in the memory filesystem /mnt/tmpfs. Or rather, to make it believe it is installed there, and then just make a symlink to the correct place. (this is really just poor man's [http://www.encap.org/ encap]