This page is *NOT* live and is only for internal discussion.


== Why? ==

We need a graphic profile and logo for XMMS2. We have gone far enough without one. I suggest we put the money from SoC in good use and get ourself something that we can use.

The plan is two competitions, one for Logo, when it's done we start the second competition, for wiki design.

== "Press-release" ==
Internet 2007-03-XX, XMMS2 Team.

XMMS2 Team officially announced it's graphic competition today. The competition goal is for the popular media player to gain a new look and to increase awareness of the project. The competition will be split up in two parts: the first will be for a new logotype. The second part, which will be launched after the conclusion of the first, will aim for a new look for the wiki with reusable elements for client authors to use.

First prize in both competitions is an Amazon.com gift certificate valid for $380. The prize money for this contest came from last year's Google Summer of Code program. The competition will start today and last submission date will be 2007-04-XX.

To compete or get more information please visit http://xmms2-contest.blogspot.com/

== Logo Rules ==

=== Format ===
* Logo should be done in a scalable format (EPS, SVG)
* Logo or parts of logo should work in 16x16 up to as big as sticking in on a tshirt

=== Submission ===
* Submission format should be a compressed archive (zip, tar.bz2 and tar.gz accepted) containing:
** Main logo in SVG format
** Proof-of-concept 16x16 pixeled logo in PNG format
** Filenames should indicate competitor (email) and date, i.e: tru_xmms_org_big_070403.svg, tru_xmms_org_small_070403.png
* Logo should be submitted via contest@xmms.se
* The logo will be processed by competition team and added to http://xmms2-contest.blogspot.com/ for everyone to see
* The competitor will receive comments on his work and can adjust the logo and submit it again.
** You can resubmit your logo infinitive number of times during the submission period, but don't flood the competition, that will weaken your position.
** Think about the filename naming when resubmitting
* Submissions are accepted until (one month after we announce it)

=== Jury ===
* Everyone that has contributed to XMMS2 has one (1) vote and Anders + Tobias has veto (very unlikely to be used).
* The result are non-negotiable

=== Prices ===
* First price is $380 gift-certificate at amazon.com for you to spend how you want + eternal glory + swag
* Second price is some cool swag
* Winners tax is paid by the winner

== WIKI Design Rules ==

* Format '''must''' be a working HTML page with CSS.
* Should incorporate the logotype in a '''seamless''' way.
* '''May''' change colors in logo but not form.
* Clean, "[[Wikipedia:Scandinavian Design|scandinavian]]" style.
* Fixed background skins will be disqualified
* Coding style is valued, keep CSS / HTML to standards that works in all browsers and are easy to change and continues to work when wiki is upgrade to a newer version of mediawiki.
* Deadline 15th Dec 2006

== Unresolved issues ==
* Prizes?
** Some kind of audio player, maybe with some nice headphones.
*** Sansa or iAudio X5 seems to be the current best bet. (it is a nice political statement if it can run [http://www.rockbox.org/twiki/bin/view/Main/TargetStatus rockbox])
*** I agree, the iAudio is probably the best choice, cast 1 vote for me. --[[User:TobiasRundström|tru]] 22:50, 1 March 2007 (CET)
** Gift certificate
*** amazon? (they got dvdvdvdvd and stuff - everyone should be able to find something there)
*** thinkgeek (to geeky for graphics people?)
** "And you can win this shiny new mediaplayer" is way cooler and more real than "And you can win $XYZ amazon gift certificate".
* Submission routine?
** We should work out exactly ''what'' the deliverables should be, then we can figure out ''how'' they're to be submitted. [[User:Eleusis|Eleusis]] 14:45, 11 September 2006 (CEST)
** Logo
*** Big logo in SVG format
*** Small logo that works in 16x16 and smaller in SVG format
*** Logo in SVG format, black and white?
** Wiki
*** A mediawiki theme in usable format
** Upload to a webserver or something like that? Email?
* What if a user wants to do 1 and 2? and wins, does he get like two DAP's then?
** YES! --[[User:Knirch|Knirch]] 19:03, 5 September 2006 (CEST)
*** Maybe it should be switchable for something else was the point. --[[User:TobiasRundström|tru]] 05:42, 6 September 2006 (CEST)
* Tax regulations?
** Don't think we should care about this. --[[User:TobiasRundström|tru]] 22:50, 1 March 2007 (CET)
* Material should be licensed GFDL and copyrighted to XMMS2 TEAM?
** We should definitely be granted rights to do whatever we want with the winning design(s).. Furthermore, competitors should probably understand that they can't retain the right to use the winning logo for some other purpose, as it will become something like a ''trademark'' for XMMS2. [[User:Eleusis|Eleusis]] 14:45, 11 September 2006 (CEST)
** Ok, two things: [[User:Anders Gustafsson|Anders Gustafsson]] 12:34, 3 March 2007 (CET)
*** The copyright should be given to XMMS2 TEAM. (what about countries where copyright isn't transferable?)
*** We should in our turn license the logo with a license that allows derivate works (so that clients can use it as a part of their logo) but retains the license. (Could LGPL be used? derivate work allowed with same license, using it from another program doesn't care about that programs license?)
* Jury - Everyone in AUTHORS get a vote? veto by core team?
** Must be able to veto! heck, give away something AND have to settle for something a drunken freenoder spew out while being molested by lilo does not compute! --[[User:Knirch|Knirch]] 19:03, 5 September 2006 (CEST)
*** Agreed, should the veto be me, anders, tilman, eleusis or something like that? --[[User:TobiasRundström|tru]] 05:42, 6 September 2006 (CEST)
** For this to work, ''core team'' needs a clear definition before the start of the event. [[User:Eleusis|Eleusis]] 14:45, 11 September 2006 (CEST)
** My suggestion is, everyone in AUTHORS get a vote and veto is hold by Anders and Tobias. --[[User:TobiasRundström|tru]] 22:50, 1 March 2007 (CET)
* shouldn't wiki design be in the format of a mediawiki skin? [[User:Anders Gustafsson|Anders Gustafsson]] 16:51, 6 September 2006 (CEST)
** Yes --[[User:TobiasRundström|tru]] 17:47, 6 September 2006 (CEST)