{{Navbar}}

This is a maintenance release, fixing bugs found in [[Release:DR1]]. This shows that we have a high paced release-soon type of scheme. New features will go into [[Release:DR2]].

[[Download XMMS2 | Download DR1.1]]

== ChangeLog - Short Version ==
Since DR1 we have fixed over 20 bugs. Here is some of the outstanding issues we corrected:
* Tobias Rundström <tru@xmms.org>
** Fixed a bug that generated wrong contents of the pkg-config files.
** Fix bug #173, shuffle problems with playlist
** Fix bug #179, don't move entries outside the playlist.
** Initialize playlist and plugins in the right order. Could cause memory violation in rare cases.
** Added some new commands to the CLI client.
* Anders Gustafsson <andersg@xmms.org>
**    Simplify m3u and pls plugins.
**    Remove seek-glitch.
**    ALSA: Make default alsamixer "default" not "hw:0"
**    ALSA: Don't change volume in open in alsa.c.
** BUG 180: Fix xmms_medialib_select to handle %s in query
* Tilman Sauerbeck <tilman@code-monkey.de>
**    Ruby bindings: added a bunch of methods to XmmsClient (bug #171).
**    Ruby bindings: Fixed bug #185. Need to rb_require 'glib2' instead of 'glib'.
**    CLI: remove doesn't accept invalid ids anymore.
**    ALSA: Use longs instead of ints to store volume, fixes problems on ia64 platforms.
**    Bug #177, PlaylistEntries has entry as unique - won't allow more then one of the same entry in the playlist
**    When we remove an entry from the playlist, 'currentpos' needs to be decreased if the current entry has been removed.
* Michael Lindgren <lindgren@debian.as>
**    BUG: 182, fix handling of icy-metaint.
* Jens Taprogge <jens.taprogge@rwth-aachen.de>
**    Improved Debian packages
* Sham Chukoury <eleusis@eleusis.f2o.org>
**    Change logfile name patch.

[[Media:Example.mp3]] dit si altijd nogf radio flappie fm