== Release Notes ==

Good news everyone. New release from the XMMS2 Team. DrCox is a bugfix / regression release which focuses on stability and some smaller feature enhancements. All users are recommended to upgrade to DrCox. The XMMS2 community is still growing with new users and contributors, just like any opensource project your involvment is necessary to bring the project forward. Please join us on IRC or our Maillist to participate.

A heartwarm thanks goes out to all contributors, hang-arounds and fans.

=== Upgrading ===

The medialib will dissapear due to changes in the tables. Please make a backup of it (xmms2d makes one for you also) if you want to keep your data.

=== Noteworthy changes ===

* {{Bug|29}} and {{Bug|484}} - New mixer API.

The biggest feature introduced in DrCox is the new Mixer API. The new API supports multiple channels and doesn't suck so much for the clients to implement. All outputs (except JACK) has been ported to the new API. So enjoy.

* {{Bug|121}} -  Fix race when writing message to clients.

A but that has been with us for a long time that got fixed just days after the last release. Should rid us of problems with the IPC layer.

* {{Bug|613}} -  Make it work on SQLite 3.3.3

An important fix to be compatible with newer SQLite. Please upgrade to sqlite 3.3.4 since 3.3.3 holds a stupid multithread bug.

* {{Bug|624}} -  Set create correctly in xmms_sqlite_open
* {{Bug|622}} -  Add transaction support to medialib.

During the testing period a lot of problems was found and correct with the Medialib, it should now work even better and be more stable.

=== New platforms ===

* {{Bug|607}} -  Add support for DragonFlyBSD
* {{Bug|619}} -  HP-UX portability.

=== Notes to client authors ===

No big changes for the API in this release. Some additions was made. Namely the mixer API and {{Bug|600}} that gives you the ability to display the progress of the mediainfo reader in your client.

=== Full ChangeLog ===

'''Alexander Botero-Lowry'''
* {{Bug|598}} -  Remove old code blocks.
* {{Bug|437}} -  Update documentation for xmms2d.
'''Anders Gustafsson'''
* {{Bug|121}} -  Fix race when writing message to clients.
* {{Bug|587}} -  Fix rounding error in resampler.
* {{Bug|595}} -  Make xmms_medialib_entry_new* propagate errors.
* {{Bug|613}} -  Make it work on SQLite 3.3.3
* {{Bug|607}} -  Add support for DragonFlyBSD (from Robert Sebastian Gerus)
* {{Bug|620}} -  Set default output with scons magic instead.
* {{Bug|619}} -  Allow platforms with "-" in name.
* {{Bug|623}} -  Don't start medialib sessions recursivly in xmms_medialib_select_and_add
* {{Bug|624}} -  Set create correctly in xmms_sqlite_open
* {{Bug|625}} -  Use ifnull(max(id),0) in prepare_playlist to avoid error with no playlists
* {{Bug|626}} -  Make xmms_sqlite_query_table report errors via xmms_error_t
* {{Bug|627}} -  Only report errors with xmms_log_error, use xmms_log_info for info
* {{Bug|633}} -  Add medialib_begin debugging.
* {{Bug|629}} -  Store url in transport to make life easier for playlistplugins.
* {{Bug|634}} -  Make et report number of playlist loads and medialib resolves.
'''Bernhard Leiner'''
* {{Bug|136}} -  Update sun output plugin.
'''Chris Morgan'''
* {{Bug|576}} -  Fixes so that xmms2d doesn't abort when jackserver isn't reachable
'''Daniel Chokola'''
* {{Bug|323}} -  Report FLAC bitrate from header.
'''Daniel Svensson'''
* {{Bug|611}} -  XMMS2 cli client split to many files
* {{Bug|610}} -  make query param to xmmsc_medialib_add_to_playlist const
* {{Bug|577}} -  Teach APEv2 tag parser to parse more tags.
* {{Bug|612}} -  Extract year from APEv2 tags.
* {{Bug|618}} -  in xmms2 list only increase total_playtime with valid values.
* {{Bug|382}} -  Don't mix async/sync in xmms2 cli status
'''Juho Vähä-Herttua'''
* {{Bug|608}} -  Fix faad plugin to handle MusicBrainz tags.
'''Sebastien Cevey'''
* {{Bug|615}} -  xmmsc_init now takes a const char* instead of a char*.
* {{Bug|606}} -  Add relative seeking to clientlib.
'''Tilman Sauerbeck'''
* {{Bug|29}} and {{Bug|484}} - New mixer API.
* {{Bug|601}} -  Rename the "configlist" command to "config_list" for consistency.
* {{Bug|602}} - Mark the 'autosaved' playlist as an internal one.
* {{Bug|603}} -  Make xmms_medialib_entry_to_list() fail if 'entry' is zero.
* {{Bug|549}} - Ruby documentation update from Dan Chokola with some tweaks and additions by myself.
* {{Bug|599}} - C89 cleanup patch from Alexander Botero-Lowry.
* {{Bug|604}} - Add volume control to the CLI. Patch by Dan Chokola.
* {{Bug|600}} - Ruby bindings for the new mediainfo reader calls.
'''Tobias Nygren'''
* {{Bug|619}} -  HP-UX portability.
'''Tobias Rundström'''
* {{Bug|579}} -  Add topsongs command to CLI client.
* {{Bug|580}} -  Let callback based plugins propagate error from the status_method.
* {{Bug|590}} -  Check medialib id before adding it to playlist.
* {{Bug|600}} -  Added a status broadcast and a counter for the mediainfo reader.
* {{Bug|600}} -  Add pythonbindings for the mediainfo reader status.
* {{Bug|29}} -  Wrap the new volume API for Python.
* {{Bug|605}} -  Let callback based plugins propagate errors.
* {{Bug|29}} -  Fixed volume api in coreaudio plugin.
* {{Bug|622}} -  Add transaction support to medialib.
* {{Bug|627}} -  Report errors with xmms_log_error in wave plugin.