== Release Notes ==

Awesomeness as usual.. 

The following contributers...

Adam Nielsen, Andres Cabrera, Andrew Potter, Benjamin Drung, Benjamin Schmitz, Christopher Rosell, Daniel Sheeler, Daniel Svensson, David Richards, Diego Biurrun, Erik Massop, Guilherme Gonçalves, Hendrik Jaeger, Jean-Charles Papin, Jonne Lehtinen, Joonas Kuorilehto, Juho Vähä-Herttua, Kyle Brantley, Rainer Wittmaack, Raphaël Bois, Sergei Trofimovich, Simonas Kazlauskas, Sivert Berg, Sébastien Cevey, Uli Franke, William Light, Yang Zhe

...were involved in in getting this release out, they have our gratitude! 

=== Upgrading ===

Notes about medialib conversion...

=== Noteworthy changes ===
* New query api
* New storage backend
* Better metadata scraping
==== For users ====

...

==== Bug fixes ====

...

=== New platforms ===

* Android... 

=== Notes to client library authors ===

* XMMSV_TYPE_INT32 is now XMMSV_TYPE_INT64, other ints in the header and so on are still 32bit. The decision to replace it is in tradition of only having one number type, and we needed the larger range for seeking, playtime, and the new xmmsc_coll_query aggregate=sum.
* XMMSV_TYPE_FLOAT has been added, which for now is only seen when using aggregate=avg in xmmsc_coll_query.
* XMMSV_TYPE_LIST now has its restricted type before the size field. If the restricted type is set to something other than XMMSV_TYPE_NONE, the following entries will implicitly be of that type and not have their own type field.
* XMMSV_TYPE_COLL now has its attributes written as a regular XMMSV_TYPE_DICT, its idlist written as a XMMSV_TYPE_INT64 restricted list, and operands written as an XMMSV_TYPE_COLL restricted list.

For changes in the available commands, see src/ipc.xml.

=== Notes to client authors ===

* API changes.. 
* Public headers no longer pull in stdio.h and stdlib.h, so make sure to include those yourself as required.

=== Notes to xform authors ===

* Metadata scraper stuff
* Public headers no longer pull in stdio.h and stdlib.h, so make sure to include those yourself as required.

=== Notes to packagers ===

=== Bug fixes ===