This is a maintenance release, fixing bugs found in [[Release:DR2]].

= Release notes =

Good news everyone! The XMMS2 Team is releasing a bugfix release of the current Developer Release ([[Release:DR2|DR2]]) called DR2.1. This corrects some annoyances found by the community, the most prominent of those being an ID3v2.3 parsing error.

This release is compatible with DR2 and will not break the plugin API, medialib or client communication (we think).

We are now focusing on the last planned DR ([[Release:DR3|DR3]]). Starting with the release of DR2.1, we now have two main trees - the [http://git.xmms2.org/xmms2/xmms2-devel/ devel tree], where more radical changes take place, and the [http://git.xmms2.org/xmms2/xmms2-stable/ stable tree]. The planned features and changes for DR3 are tracked on our Mantis bug tracker under under {{Bug|317}}. Your feedback is important for DR3 since we are aiming to stabilise the API after this.

Source is available at [[Download XMMS2#Source | sourceforge]] as usual.

Now have a nice day!

= ChangeLog =

==New Features==
* Alexander Botero-Lowry:
** Install the manpages with SCons {{Bug|300}}
* Tobias Rundstrom:
** SCons configuration now logs ConfigErrors to config.log. {{Bug|307}}
==Bugs fixed==
* Alexander Botero-Lowry:
** Fixed typo in OSS plugin. {{Bug|326}}
* Alexander Rigbo:
** Initialize GError variable before using it. {{Bug|318}}
* Anders Gustafsson:
** Remove leftover debug assertion in resampler. {{Bug|314}}
** Remove bogus code in id3v2-reader that made tags not read. {{Bug|293}}
* Daniel Svensson:
** cmdline -i <url> sets ipcpath {{Bug|316}}
** Added srand before rand. {{Bug|315}}
* Jens Taprogge:
** Fixed ruby compilation. {{Bug|294}}
* Sébastien Cevey:
** Fixed some incorrect documentation. {{Bug|308}}
* Tobias Rundstrom:
** Handle exception on UTF-8 convertion error. {{Bug|325}}
** Removed global result refholder. {{Bug|301}}
** Better errorhandling when we can't initialize the outputplugin. {{Bug|296}}


[[Category:Releases]]