{{Navbar}}

This is a maintenance release, fixing bugs found in [[Release:DR2.1|DR2.1]].

= Release notes =

no More good news everyone! The XMMS2 Team is releasing another bugfix release of the current Developer Release ([[Release:DR2|DR2]]) called DR2.2. 

Some outstanding issues have forced us to release another maintenance release in the DR2 series instead of making a DR3 release, including the fixing of a couple of huge memory leaks. Another annoying bug is that XMMS2 doesn't work at all with newer SQLite (3.2.5 and higher) releases because of a policy change; we were misusing the API and they made such usage fail with a hard error. This has '''not''' been fixed in this maintenance release since it is a major change to our internal API. It will be fixed in the upcoming [[Release:DR3 | DR3]] release.

Source is available at [[Download XMMS2#Source | sourceforge]] as usual.

Now have a nice day!

= ChangeLog =

==Bugs fixed==
* G. Gallino:
** Added checking for negative gain value. {{Bug|297}}
* Sebastien Cevey:
** Fixed buggy xmmsc_result_list_first {{Bug|342}}
* Tilman Sauerbeck:
** Fix refcounting for ruby clientbindings {{Bug|187}}
** Fix refcounting problems in Python clientbindings. {{Bug|349}}
** Fixed a memory leak in results that store lists. {{Bug|353}}
* Tobias Rundstrom:
** Fix bad documentation in xmmsclient python bindings. {{Bug|328}}
** Plug memory leak in xmms_object_emit_f {{Bug|341}}

==Other Changes==
* Tilman Sauerbeck:
** complain about result refcount missuage in clientlib.
** Small fix in ruby testscript.
** Cleanup of ruby error handling.
* Tobias Rundstrom:
** Added check so that we don't try to compile with a new version of

[[Category:Releases]]