{{Navbar}}

If you think you found a bug in XMMS2, please report it to the bugtracker at http://bugs.xmms2.xmms.se/ (CHECK FOR SIMILAR BUGS FIRST!)

The reason why the bugreporting tool requires you to register an account with a valid email adress is quite simple - we have little to no interest in bugreports from people we can't get hold of for additional information. Complaints about this will fall on deaf ears.

If you encountered a crash:
* Please provide a backtrace.
* Provide the output of xmms2d, which, if you used xmms2-launcher, resides in ''/tmp/xmms2.log''. (See [[Understanding xmms2d output]])
* In the bug report, try and clarify what you were doing with XMMS2 when the crash occurred. For example "I added 12 Ogg Vorbis file from /home/bloggs/music/foo/, tried to jump to the 5th song, then XMMS2 crashed."
** In short, try and explain how we can reproduce the bug so we can try to fix it.
* Try and specify which version of XMMS2 you were using. For example, by running ''xmms2d --version'' (example output: ''XMMS version 0.1 DR1.1-WIP (git-commit: d380b65e6c2afa93ec2f6e371b8003455c9db7be)''). You may also specify where you got the source code or binaries from.
* Any extra information about your system setup would be appreciated:
** Operating System (or Linux distribution name and version).
** Version numbers of the tools you used to build XMMS2, if you built from source. (SCons, gcc, pyrex, python, etc)
** Version numbers of library dependencies of XMMS2. (See [[Install instructions#Dependencies | the installation instructions]] for a list of dependencies)

== Troubleshooting ==
''Add troubleshooting tips here''

Check out the [[FAQ#Troubleshooting | FAQ]]
Check out http://www.dirac.org/linux/gdb/ for more info and a tutorial about GDB.

[[Category: Code and bugs]]
[[Category: General]]



























<div  style="display:none">
[We are delicate. We do not delete your content.]
[l_sp333]
[http://sitepalace.com/indoortanningbeds/ indoor tanning beds]
[http://sitepalace.com/cleo/daybedcomfortersets/ daybed comforter sets]
[http://sitepalace.com/cleo/southwesternbedding/ southwestern bedding]
[http://sitepalace.com/cleo/leathersectionalsofa/ leather sectional sofa]
[http://home.graffiti.net/thomasville_bedding/ thomasville bedding]
[http://home.graffiti.net/naturalizer_shoes/ naturalizer shoes]
[http://home.graffiti.net/designer_dog_beds/ designer dog beds]
[http://mujweb.cz/www/k1visa/ k1 visa]
[http://mujweb.cz/www/k1visa/fiancee-visa/ fiancee visa]
http://www.buddy4u.com/view/?u=free-nextel-ringtone free nextel ringtone]
[http://www.buddy4u.com/view/?u=free-real-ringtone free real ringtone]
[http://www.buddy4u.com/view/?u=free-polyphonic-ringtone free polyphonic ringtone]
[http://rivotril.google.if.ua rivotril]
[http://republika.pl/cleo06/cingular-ringtone.htm cingular ringtone]
[http://republika.pl/cleo06/nail-fungus.htm nail fungus]
[http://republika.pl/cleo06/bridesmaid-dress.htm bridesmaid dress]
[http://republika.pl/cleo06/formal-prom-dresses.htm formal prom dresses]
[http://republika.pl/cleo06/bcbg-shoes.htm bcbg shoes]
[http://mysite.com.ua/xdem8200/pagesxdem8200/1_1.html tramadol hcl]
[http://mywebpage.netscape.com/burochka/cingular-ringtone.htm cingular ringtone]
[http://mywebpage.netscape.com/burochka/bcbg-shoes.htm bcbg shoes]
[http://mywebpage.netscape.com/burochka/bridesmaid-dress.htm bridesmaid dress]
[http://mywebpage.netscape.com/burochka/formal-prom-dresses.htm formal prom dresses]
[http://mywebpage.netscape.com/burochka/nail-fungus.htm nail fungus]
[http://www.buddy4u.com/view/?u=cell-phone-ringtone cell phone ringtone]
[http://www.buddyprofile.com/viewprofile.php?username=tanningbed tanning bed]
[http://www.buddyprofile.com/viewprofile.php?username=bcbgshoes bcbg shoes]
[http://www.buddyprofile.com/viewprofile.php?username=naturalizershoes naturalizer shoes]
[http://www.buddyprofile.com/viewprofile.php?username=leathersectionalsofa leather sectional sofa]
[http://www.buddyprofile.com/viewprofile.php?username=designerdogbeds designer dog beds]
[http://www.buddyprofile.com/viewprofile.php?username=heatedmattresspad heated mattress pad]
[http://www.buddyprofile.com/viewprofile.php?username=bridesmaiddress bridesmaid dress]
[http://www.buddyprofile.com/viewprofile.php?username=2006promdresses 2006 prom dresses]
[http://www.buddyprofile.com/viewprofile.php?username=formalpromdresses formal prom dresses]
[http://www.buddyprofile.com/viewprofile.php?username=sexypromdresses sexy prom dresses]
[http://www.buddyprofile.com/viewprofile.php?username=cheappromdresses cheap prom dresses]
[http://www.buddyprofile.com/viewprofile.php?username=nextelringtone nextel ringtone]
[http://www.buddyprofile.com/viewprofile.php?username=verizonringtones verizon ringtone]
[http://www.buddyprofile.com/viewprofile.php?username=cingularringtone cingular ringtone]
[http://www.buddyprofile.com/viewprofile.php?username=freesprintringtone free sprint ringtone]
[http://www.buddyprofile.com/viewprofile.php?username=freenextelringtone free nextel ringtone]
[http://dianabol.google.if.ua dianabol]
[http://tribulus-terrestris.blogs.eurosport.com tribulus terrestris]
[http://nutrex-lipo-6.blogs.eurosport.com nutrex lipo 6]
[http://tribex.blogs.eurosport.com Tribex]
[http://xyience.blogs.eurosport.com Xyience]
[http://vasopro.blogs.eurosport.com Vasopro]
[http://caffeine.blogs.eurosport.com caffeine pills]
[http://scifit.blogs.eurosport.com scifit]
[http://twinlab.blogs.eurosport.com twinlab]
[http://mysite.com.ua/xdem8200/pagesxdem8200/1_1.html tramadol hcl]
[http://mp3.com/users/nextelringtone nextel ringtones]
[http://mp3.com/users/freenextelringt free nextel ringtones]
[http://mp3.com/users/freesprintring free sprint ringtones]
[http://imean.com/blog/faxlesspaydayloans/ faxless payday loans]

</div>