''This page outlines ideas for a more well defined process for integrating code in the main repository''

The main point of this change is to foster peer review. But as a side effect it should also make it easier to do automated sanity checks on code and changesets and hopefully make it _easier_ to get code integrated. Today the developer (DEV) needs to tell/nag someone with write access to -devel, the integrator (IGR), to get their changes accepted and propagated to -devel. There is no well-defined process of what the requirements are, and how easy it is depends on the IGR and his/her mood, how busy (s)he is and a lot of other things (like how annoying the DEV is).

My idea is to have a little mailbot. 

DEV has done some (at least (s)he thinks so) nice commits in his tree. To integrate the changes in -devel the following steps need to be taken:
* push the commits to his public repository, git://git.xmms.se/xmms2/xmms2-randdev.git.
* send a mail to rfp@xmms.se stating the commit id for the top of tree he wishes to integrate into -devel
* rfp@xmms.se is the mailbot, which now does some sanitychecking. Suggested tests:
** check that current -devel is included in the tree to integrate.
** check that all changeset comments have correct tagging (OTHER/BUG/FEATURE)
* If any of the tests failed DEV will get a reply informing him of the tests that failed.
* If all tests passed a mail is sent to the mailinglist. This will include:
** Each commit's changelog and diffstat.
** If small enough, the diff.
** Any non fatal warnings that the sanitychecker may have produced.
* Other DEVs/IGRs can review the code, and reply to the mail (to the mailinglist).
** If they think it is ok to integrate they include a RFP OK line in their mail.
** The change can also be vetoed by including RFP VETO in the mail.
* When required number of OK's is received, the changesets are automatically pulled into -devel.

The criteria could be something like (this is just an example!):
* No vetos from core developers
* Two OK from core developers, or...
** One OK from core developers and more than 2 OK from non core developers

[[Category:Developer ideas]]