Support Apple Lossless Audio Codec (ALAC) and remote streaming to Airport Express in XMMS2
----

== Overview ==

ALAC is an audio codec by Apple that uses lossless compression at low storage and decoding costs. The goal of this project is to
1. Integrate an ALAC decoder for playing ALAC formatted files (.mp4) in XMMS2.
2. Develop an ALAC encoder to stream XMMS2 music to Airport Express.

----

== Project Deliverables ==
1. Implement an ALAC decoder in XMMS2 for playback
In this task, I will write a Transforms plugin which will take an ALAC formatted
file and will decode it into a PCM stream. ALAC is a closed standard but
thankfully there is an existing reverse-engineered implementation of the ALAC
decoder [1]. The main goal of this task would be to either integrate [1] or to
write new code based on [1] (most probably former because [1] has a liberal
license).

2. Implement an ALAC encoder and remote streaming to Airport Express
This task will require implementing an ALAC encoder based on the decoder
in [1]. The xform for this task will be then used to chain into an “output” xform to
stream the data to Airport Express. The streaming protocol is called Remote
Audio Output Protocol (RAOP) and has been reverse-engineered and
implemented in open source tools like [2] and [3]. The main goal of this task is to
derive the ALAC encoder from the open source decoder and then implement
our own RAOP xform based on the reverse-engineered tools. A second goal is
to implement the discovery of Airport Express(es) on local network using
Apple’s Bonjour service discovery protocol. This can be done using a Bonjour
client library [4].

----
== Why this project? ==

This project is also borne out of a personal need: I would like to stream my
XMMS music library to the Airport Express. There are tools like
[2] and [3] which allow you to do that under Linux but they are very hard
and unintuitive to use. I would like to have a tool which is integrated in the
music player itself (like iTunes). As a side-effect of this work, XMMS2 will
also gain the ability to encode/decode ALAC codec. Once finished, I think
XMMS2 will be the first media player under Linux to support both these features.

----

== Proposed Timeline ==

May 24th - June 10th:
Read up on the ALAC decoder [1].
Get familiar with XMMS2 architecture and the xforms plugin interface.

June 11th - June 17th:
Create a design spec for the ALAC encoder/decoder xforms plugins.

June 18th - July 8th:
Implement and test the ALAC decoder.

July 9th - July 29th:
Implement and test the ALAC decoder.

July 16h - July 29th:
Extend the plugin to handle iTunes authentication and sharing.
Implement iTunes share discovery using Bonjour.

July 30th - Aug 5th:
Create a design spec for the RAOP xform plugins.

Aug 6th - Aug 22nd:
Implement and test the RAOP streaming xform plugin.
Clean-up and Document the project code.


----

== References ==

[1] http://craz.net/programs/itunes/alac.html
[2] http://www.nanocrew.net/software/justeport/
[3] http://sourceforge.net/projects/raop-play/
[4] http://avahi.org/