= Overview =
XMMS2 uses a flexible plugin concept called transforms (main article: [[Transforms]]). Each transform does some work to help decode the input. Transform plugins are assembled into a chain at runtime to decode each song bit-by-bit.

Transform plugins (xforms) can be categorized into the following types (and possibly more): playlists, transports, demuxers, metadata, decoders, effects, outputs, special, and others.

= Plugins =
== Playlists ==
Playlist xforms parse and load playlist files.

* [[Component:ASX|ASX]] - Advanced Stream Redirector xform, reads ASX playlists (made popular by Windows Media Player)
* [[Component:cue|cue]] - Cuefile xform.
* [[Component:HTML|HTML]] - HTML xform.
* [[Component:m3u|m3u]] - M3U xform.
* [[Component:pls|pls]] - PLS xform.
* [[Component:RSS|RSS]] - RSS xform, loads RSS playlists, like podcasts.
* [[Component:XSPF|XSPF]] - XML Shareable Playlist Format xform.

== Transports ==
Transports get raw data as a stream from a source such as a hard disk or internet radio.

* [[Component:CDDA|CDDA]] - Compact Disc Digital Audio xform, reads audio CDs.
* [[Component:cURL|cURL]] - cURL xform, reads http, https, ftp, and other streams.
* [[Component:DAAP|DAAP]] - Digital Audio Access Protocol xform, reads from DAAP shares (made popular by iTunes)
* [[Component:file|file]] - File xform, reads files from the local filesystem.
* [[Component:gnomevfs|gnomevfs]] - GnomeVFS xform, uses Gnome's virtual filesystem to access many types of media.
* [[Component:lastfm|lastfm]] - Last.fm xform, reads Last.fm streams.
* [[Component:MMS|MMS]] - Libmms xform, reads from MMS (Microsoft Media Services) streams.
* [[Component:samba|samba]] - Samba xform, reads from SMB shares.

== Demuxers ==
Demuxers (short for "demultiplexers") strip away container formats and pass on any relevant information from the container.

* [[Component:avformat|avformat]] - FFmpeg xform, demuxes asf and amr streams.
* [[Component:mp4|mp4]] - MPEG-4 xform, demuxes MPEG-4 container format (made popular by iTunes).

== Metadata ==
Metadata xforms strip out metadata like ID3 tags and vorbis comments from streams.

* [[Component:icymetaint|icymetaint]] - ICY xform, extracts info from ICY headers in ShoutCast streams.
* [[Component:ID3v2|ID3v2]] - ID3v2 xform, extracts ID3v2 tags.
* [[Component:ofa|ofa]] - Libofa xform, MusicDNS fingerprinting.

== Decoders ==
Decoders turn the encoded audio data into raw audio data that can be used by effects and outputs. Many of the decoders also extract metadata.

* [[Component:avcodec|avcodec]] - FFmpeg xform.
* [[Component:FAAD|FAAD]] - Advanced Audio Coding (AAC) xform.
* [[Component:FLAC|FLAC]] - Free Lossless Audio Codec xform.
* [[Component:mac|mac]] - Monkey's Audio Codec xform.
* [[Component:mad|mad]] - Libmad xform, decodes MP3.
* [[Component:modplug|modplug]] - Modplug xform, decodes mod files.
* [[Component:musepack|musepack]] - Musepack Living Audio Compression xform, decodes mpc files.
* [[Component:sid|sid]] - Libsidplay2 xform, decodes SID files.
* [[Component:speex|speex]] - Speex voice compression xform.
* [[Component:vorbis|vorbis]] - Ogg Vorbis xform.
* [[Component:wave|wave]] - Wave xform, decodes .wav files.

== Effects ==
Effects modify the raw audio data before it is sent to the output.

* [[Component:equalizer|equalizer]] - Equalizer xform, to tune different frequency bands to taste.
* [[Component:replaygain|replaygain]] - ReplayGain xform, normalizes audio according to settings stored in the file.
* [[Component:vocoder|vocoder]] - Vocoder xform, produces a cool [[Wikipedia:Vocoder|vocoder]] effect.

== Outputs ==
Outputs send the raw audio data out, usually to speakers, but also as internet radio streams or to the harddrive.

* [[Component:ALSA|ALSA]] - Advanced Linux Sound Architecture output.
* [[Component:ao|ao]] - Libao output.
* [[Component:coreaudio|coreaudio]] - Coreaudio output, for Darwin/OSX.
* [[Component:diskwrite|diskwrite]] - Diskwriter output, writes wave files to a location on the harddrive.
* [[Component:ices|ices]] - Icecast source output, use this to create an icecast stream directly from XMMS2.
* [[Component:Jack|JACK]] - Jack Audio Connection Kit output, low-latency audio output.
* [[Component:nms|nms]] - Neuros OSD output.
* [[Component:null|null]] - Null output, outputs nothing.
* [[Component:OSS|OSS]] - Open Sound System output.
* [[Component:sun|sun]] - Sun output, for OpenBSD.
* [[Component:waveout|waveout]] - WaveOut output, for Windows.

== Special ==
Special xforms are built into XMMS2 and required for operation. They act as glue between certain xforms.

* [[Component:converter|converter]] - Converts between PCM formats, often needed by effects and certain outputs.
* [[Component:magic|magic]] - Identifies mimetypes of streams based on certain "magic bytes."
* [[Component:ringbuf|ringbuf]] - Ringbuffer xform which can be inserted where there is a mismatch in how frequently a stream is read.

== Others ==
These xforms don't fit in well in the other categories. Usually these are used to help other xforms and have little use on their own.

* [[Component:nulstripper|nulstripper]] - Removes null bytes (not audio) at the beginning of streams. This helps the magic xform.
* [[Component:XML|XML]] - Used as a helper for XML-based playlist xforms (like RSS and XSPF).