Please also view the manual pages - if you have the XMMS2 source they're in doc/xmms2.1 and doc/xmms2d.8. They can also be viewed at http://alex.foxybanana.com/manpages.html

'''Notes:'''
* By default, a small client - ''[[ET | xmms2-et]]'' is installed and set up to be launched whenever ''xmms2d'' is started. The purpose of this client is to send the developers some information about the plugins and versions of XMMS2 being used out there, so that new releases can be planned based on this testing data. You should know that this program does not send any personally identifiable information - if in doubt, check the source code yourself (''[http://git.xmms.se/?p=xmms2-devel.git;a=blob;f=src/clients/et/xmms2-et.c src/clients/et/xmms2-et.c]''). ''xmms2-et'' does not affect the operation of the XMMS2 daemon in any significant way - you can safely disable it by removing ''~/.config/xmms2/startup.d/xmms2-et-launcher.sh'' (substitute '~/.config/xmms2' as appropriate for your xmms2 configuration directory).

= The Daemon =

xmms2d can be started by typing 'xmms2d' after installing the application. (To daemonise the process, use ''xmms2-launcher'' instead of ''xmms2d'') You can then interact with the daemon using one of many [[#The clients | clients]]

 xmms2d
 xmms2 play

Tada, music!

== xmms2d options ==

Here is a list of currently available xmms2d options:

* -v - Increase verbosity
* -q - Decrease verbosity
* -V (or --version) - Show XMMS2 version
* -n - Disable logging
* -o <x> - Specify <x> as output plugin
* -i <url> - Listen to socket 'url'
* -p <path> - Specify plugin directory path
* -h (or --help) - Print help (show list of options)
* -c (or --conf) - Specify alternate configuration file

== Configuring the daemon ==
Changing output plugin:

 xmms2 config output.plugin oss-or-alsa-or-whatever-plugin-you-should-use

Making xmms2d listen for requests via TCP:

 xmms2 config core.ipcsocket tcp://127.0.0.1:<port> 

and then restart xmms2d. Now xmms2d will listen to that port for incoming remote clients.

This only works if the client runs on the same machine (127.0.0.1) as the server. To connect from a machine within for example your home network, the server needs to know the address of the network interface of your computer. So for example if your network interface has the IP address 192.168.2.20 you need to configure:

 xmms2 config core.ipcsocket tcp://192.168.2.20:<port>

Now you can connect to the xmms2 server from another machine in your private network. You need to tell '''all''' clients (even the local ones) to connect to the server via this IP address. For the command line client, you can add the line

 ipcpath=tcp://192.168.2.20:<port>

to the config file ~/.xmms2/clients/cli.conf. Generally, XMMS2 clients use the value of the ''XMMS_PATH'' environment variable to find the daemon.


Multiple sockets are possible by setting core.ipcsocket to 
 <path>;<path>;<path>


When using ipv6 and wildcards (address "::") you might get problems depending on your system. Under Linux, letting a socket listen on "::" also means to listen on ipv4 (unless <code>/proc/sys/net/ipv6/bindv6only</code> is set to 1).

= The clients =
You can interact with the daemon using the 'xmms2' command-line client, which comes in the source tree, or [[XMMS2_Clients | other clients]].

== xmms2 client options ==

The basic CLI (command line interface) xmms2 client can use alternative paths for IPC. Simply set the XMMS_PATH environment variable to the appropriate path and then use the client.

Alternative Unix socket path (using Bash shell):

  XMMS_PATH="unix:///tmp/my-socket" xmms2 list

equivalent:

  export XMMS_PATH="unix:///tmp/my-socket"
  xmms2 list

for (t)csh users:

  setenv XMMS_PATH "unix:///tmp/my-socket"
  xmms2 list

Talking to the daemon via TCP (Note: this example is for the daemon listening to port 7777 on a machine with address 10.0.0.1 This does not imply port 7777 is the default TCP port):

  export XMMS_PATH="tcp://10.0.0.1:7777"
  xmms2 list

for (t)csh users:
  setenv XMMS_PATH "tcp://10.0.0.1:7777
  xmms2 list

== First steps using xmms2 client ==

Add all files in a directory to the medialib (recursively adds files in subdirectories as well):

  xmms2 mlib addpath /path/to/music

Add files to the playlist:

  xmms2 add /some/path/*.ogg

Play:

  xmms2 play

Query the medialib database (e.g. your favourite band):

  xmms2 mlib search artist="Kultiration"

Query the medialib database and add the result to your playlist:

  xmms2 mlib searchadd artist="Kultiration"

Listen to a shoutcast stream (assuming curl plugin is installed and playlist is empty):

  xmms2 mlib import_playlist bluemars http://207.200.96.225:8020/listen.pls
  xmms2 mlib load_playlist bluemars
  xmms2 play

Or with the direct url:

  xmms2 add http://207.200.96.225:8020
  xmms2 play

Enabling an effect:

  xmms2 config effect.order.0 some-effect-name
  xmms2 config effect.some-effect-name.enabled 1

[[Category: Users]]