__NOTOC__
This page describes how you use the streaming ices output in XMMS2.

== Installing Icecast ==
Go to http://www.icecast.org/ and download sources. ices output in XMMS2 only supports ogg/vorbis streaming so you need icecast2.

== Configure Icecast ==
Make sure to set the password and mount-point.

== Compile ices output ==
Make sure you have libshout-dev and libvorbisenc installed, then do scons CONFIG=1 and install with scons install.

== Configure ices output ==
The ices output plugin has a lot of different config directives. ''xmms2 config_list |grep ices'' will give you all the directives.

 ices.streamname
 ices.mount
 ices.password
 ices.streamurl
 ices.host
 ices.streamdescription
 ices.streamgenre
 ices.user
 ices.encodingnombr
 ices.public
 ices.port

=== streamname ===
Sets the name of the stream.

=== mount ===
The mountpoint on the server.

=== password ===
The source password of the icecast server

=== streamurl ===
The url to the stream. Will be announced.

=== host ===
The icecast host to connect to.

=== streamdescription ===
The description of the stream, will be shown to the clients of icecast.

=== streamgenre ===
The genre of the stream, will be shown to the clients of icecast.

=== user ===
The source user

=== encodingnombr ===
The ices output will re-encode all output and the quality used will be set by this variable.

=== public ===
If set to ''1'' the icecast server will announce your stream in the shoutcast directory.

=== port ===
The port of the icecast server.

== Playing ==
Now just set output.plugin to ices(using ''xmms2 config output.plugin = ices''),load up your playlist and do ''xmms2 play''

[[Category:Howto]]