{{MergeNextRelease|Install instructions}}
''XMMS2 migrated to waf on 2006-12-04. This means that you have to learn a new way to build XMMS2.''

== Overview ==
The waf homepage is [http://code.google.com/p/waf/ here]. One of the nice things about waf is that it can be compressed down to one file and distributed with its target program. This is the case with XMMS2. This eliminates the need to install waf and only the dependency on Python remains.

However waf is currently ([[Release:DrJekyll|DrJekyll]] release cycle) undergoing considerable changes. Tru is in constant contact with the waf team and submitting patches all the time. These patches may or may not have made it into the official waf, so please always use the waf executable included with XMMS2.

== How to use waf ==

=== Prepare for waf ===
If you are running git you must be aware that waf doesn't play well with directories where you have stale object or binary files. (i.e. stale files previously built by scons) So before you try building anything you should do <code>git clean -d</code> or re-clone to a new directory.

=== Configure ===

 ./waf configure

Will configure your build. Interesting options:

* --prefix <path> : tells waf to put the installation in path
* --conf-prefix <path> : tells waf to append -I<path>/include and -L<path>/lib before trying to compile anything
* --without-plugins <list> : disable all the plugins in list.
* --nocache : rerun all configuration tests.
* -p : show a useless but cool progress bar when building!

=== Build ===

 ./waf build

will build your copy of XMMS2. All objects and binaries will end up in _build_/default.

=== Install ===

 ./waf install

will install into <prefix>

=== Uninstall ===

 ./waf uninstall

easy as 123.

== Common problems ==

=== Version mismatch ===

problem:

 22:23 <Eclipser> Traceback (most recent call last):
 22:23 <Eclipser>   File "./waf", line 189, in ?
 22:23 <Eclipser>     if Params.REVISION != REVISION:
 22:23 <Eclipser> AttributeError: 'module' object has no attribute 'REVISION'

solution:
 22:25 <tru> rm -rf ~/.waf*

=== Stale files ===
Problem:

 [153/191] * cc_link_static : ../src/lib/xmmsutils/strlist.o ../src/lib/xmmsutils/utils_unix.o -> ../src/lib/xmmsutils/libxmmsutils.a
 Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/home/andersg/dev/xmms2-devel/waf", line 334, in ?
    Main()
  File "/home/andersg/.waf-1.0.1/wafadmin/Scripting.py", line 210, in Main
    ret = bld.compile()
  File "/home/andersg/.waf-1.0.1/wafadmin/Build.py", line 201, in compile
    ret = executor.start()
  File "/home/andersg/.waf-1.0.1/wafadmin/Runner.py", line 241, in start
    if not proc.must_run():
  File "/home/andersg/.waf-1.0.1/wafadmin/Task.py", line 196, in must_run
    self.m_dep_sig = self.m_scanner.get_signature(self)
  File "/home/andersg/.waf-1.0.1/wafadmin/Scan.py", line 28, in get_signature
    ret = self._get_signature(task)
  File "/home/andersg/.waf-1.0.1/wafadmin/Scan.py", line 74, in _get_signature
    return self._get_signature_default_strong(task)
  File "/home/andersg/.waf-1.0.1/wafadmin/Scan.py", line 100, in _get_signature_default_strong
    for node in task.m_inputs: add_node_sig(node)
  File "/home/andersg/.waf-1.0.1/wafadmin/Scan.py", line 97, in add_node_sig
    m.update(tree.m_tstamp_variants[variant][node])
 KeyError: b:/home/andersg/dev/xmms2-devel/src/xmms/sample-gen.o

solution:

Make sure that you don't have any .o .a .c (generated ones) left from your scons install!

Suggested ways of doing this:
 git clean -d -x
or
 cg-clean -dx

=== I changed prefix but it didn't recompile! ===
Problem: Waf does only generate xmms_defs.h on configuration and doesn't depend on it correctly
Solution:

 ./waf clean
 ./waf build

I am working on a better fix for this.