XMMS2 is, quite simply, [[About|a music player]]. It does have a number of [[features]] that are constantly growing and improving. However, there are a lot of things that XMMS2 just isn't, and there are a lot of things that XMMS2 ''doesn't do''.

== What XMMS2 will not do ==
''XMMS2 will '''not''':''
* increase corporate profits.
* clean your house.
** ... unless you hook it up with your [[Wikipedia:Emacs|emacs]].
* walk your dog.
* bring about [[Wikipedia:World Peace|world peace]].
* destroy [[Wikipedia:Microsoft|Microsoft]].
* play video.
** ... except for the audio tracks.
* [[Wikipedia:Stargate SG-1|transport]] you to another [[Wikipedia:Stargate Atlantis|galaxy]].
* look good in [[screenshots]].
* make the Internet free.
* turn your desktop into an animated [[Wikipedia:Xgl|3D cube]].
* give you a standard to commoditise upon.
** ... unless it becomes a standard to commoditise upon.
* [[Wikipedia:Steve Irwin|wrestle crocodiles]]
** ... crocodile wrestling is xmms1 only.
* make you [[Wikipedia:Immortality|live forever]].
** ... unless you're mentioned in [http://git.xmms2.org/xmms2/xmms2-devel/plain/AUTHORS AUTHORS].
* come out of a shiny box and install itself in your heart forever.
* make you rich.
** ... unless you're a [[Summer of Code 2007|SoC student]]. :)
* get you laid.
** ... unless you use it to play [http://www.last.fm/tag/sensual sensual music] while dating.
* make you famous.
** ... unless you're [[Sébastien Cevey]].
* break you out of [[Wikipedia:Prison Break|jail]].
** ... except when compiled by [[Wikipedia:Frank Morris|Frank Morris]], or [[Wikipedia:John Anglin|John]] and [[Wikipedia:Clarence Anglin|Clarence Anglin]].
* [[Wikipedia:Roundhouse_kick | roundhouse kick]] you.
** ... except when compiled by [[Wikipedia:Chuck_Norris | Chuck Norris]].
* cure you of [[Wikipedia:AIDS|AIDS]], [[Wikipedia:Cancer|cancer]] or [[Wikipedia:Syphillis|syphillis]].
* give you free music.
** ... except for a [[Intro Clips|small sample]].
* give you [[Wikipedia:Superhuman_Strength|superhuman strength]].
** ... unless you compile it with -fuse-[[Wikipedia:Kryptonite|kryptonite]].
* [[Wikipedia:Spy | spy]] on you.
** ... except when told to [[ET | call home]].