{{Navbar}}

There are a number of client programs currently being developed for use with XMMS2. Some of them are very simple and perform only a handful of functions, while others are more fully featured. If you are a new XMMS2 client developer, you're welcome to add your client to the list.. and drop by our IRC channel to let us know what you're doing, so we may work closely together. ;)

= Console clients =
Clients that can be used from a command line, console or terminal.

== XMMS2 CLI client ==

This is the simple client that currently comes with XMMS2 itself. (source code found in src/clients/cli/xmms2_client.c) It supports most, if not all, operations possible using the xmmsclient library. See the [[Using the application]] page for more information about how to use this client.

== xmms2-shell ==

xmms2-shell is an interactive shell client for XMMS2. It's like [http://freshmeat.net/projects/xmms-shell/ xmms-shell], but with commands matching the XMMS2 CLI client. It was originally written this so as to provide a better context in which to interact with the XMMS2 daemon, rather than having to run the CLI client for a single action at a time. xmms2-shell depends on [[XMMS2_Clients#HaX | HaX]]'s HaXCore to provide a simpler interface to the XMMS2 python bindings. xmms2-shell is maintained by [[Sham Chukoury]] and more information can be found at the [http://eleusis.f2o.org/projects/xmms2/shell/ xmms2-shell project] page.

== XMMS2Curse ==

XMMS2Curse is a python client using ncurses for its interface. Under development by [[Christopher Rosell]].

More info here: http://evangelion.se/xmms2/

= Graphical clients =
Clients that require X Windows or other graphical windowing systems.

== EFL (Enlightenment Foundation Libraries) ==
=== Euphoria ===

Euphoria is a graphical XMMS2 client based on the [http://enlightenment.org Enlightenment Foundation Libraries] (EFL) currently in development. Euphoria is maintained by [[Tilman Sauerbeck]] and is currently being rewritten. It can be found in the Enlightenment CVS repository.

== GTK ==
=== xmms2play ===

xmms2play is a simple GTK2 xmms2 client written in C. It is designed for those that desire a minimalist design. It does not include a playlist, instead intending for external applications such as medialib-ui to be used for that purpose. xmms2play-0.07 includes more or less functional code for handling utf8 characters in song titles, it has also been updated for a bunch of small API changes in xmmsclient. xmms2play also now uses pkg-config instead of hardcoded CFLAGS and LDFLAGS. It can be downloaded from http://www.stampede.org/~drax/xmms2play-0.07.tar.gz Client written by [[Alexander Botero-Lowry]].

=== gkrellxmms2 ===

gkrellxmms2 is a plugin for GKrellM2 to control some basic functions of the XMMS2 audio player (PLAY, PAUSE, SKIP+/-, STOP). It also shows the current artist and track name and the current position in the track. Since Version 0.0.7 it includes a file details dialog, which you can open by clicking on the track title scroller. '''New:''' Since version 0.2.0 the plugin includes a media lib search and [http://wejp.homelinux.org/wejp/xmms2/pledit.png playlist editor]!
Plugin written by Johannes Heimansberg.
The plugin can be found on http://wejp.homelinux.org/wejp/xmms2/

=== perlamp ===

Perlamp should be a front-end that allows it to open Wxxamp modern skins. 
The current status is a proof-of-concept written in Perl with perlgtk that allows incomplete viewing of several modern skins with Maki support.
Actually the Maki script support is in a very good state, other areas are not.
Interested parties please contact [[Ralf Engels]]

=== gxmms2 ===

gxmms2 is a GTK2 based XMMS2 client. Its main window is small and simple. It includes a [http://wejp.homelinux.org/wejp/xmms2/pledit.png playlist editor] and a file information dialog.
Client written by Johannes Heimansberg.
It can be found on http://wejp.homelinux.org/wejp/xmms2/

===juxtapose===

"Jukebox Using XMMS Two as Player of Songs.  Eh?" :D  PyGTK based XMMS2 client loosely based on the Muine interface.  Now hosted by the lovely XMMS2 guys on git - http://git.xmms.se/ or "cg-clone rsync://git.xmms.se/xmms2/juxtapose.git/ juxtapose-master" to checkout the latest source

=== Panelhöna, the GNOME Panel Applet ===
A simple GNOME Panel Applet that you can drop files on and xmms2 starts playing the dropped song. RMB for a menu with related items, LMB for [http://www.apple.com/macosx/features/spotlight/ spotlight] like searching of the medialib. http://www.nittionio.nu/xmms2/, written by [[Daniel Svensson]].

== Qt ==
=== medialib-ui playlist client ===

This is a standalone medialib and playlist client. Aimed at functionality instead of pretty visuals. The idea is to have the client as a complement of a desktop-nice xmms client. It's written in python with PyQT widgetset. The code is available in the http://git.xmms.se repository. The client is very flexible and can be extended by adding own Python code in configuration directory. Written by [[Tobias Rundström]].

== Others ==
=== HaX ===

HaX is a flexible and modular Python client for XMMS2. What started off as a PyGTK project has evolved into a reusable collection of modules that may be used to quickly build other Python XMMS2 clients, integrate a player client into a larger Python application, or simply provide smarter 'skinning' abilities. HaX is also maintained by [[Sham Chukoury]] and more information can be found at the [http://eleusis.f2o.org/projects/xmms2/hax/ HaX project] page.

=== GNUstep client ===

A GNUstep client called [http://home.gna.org/garma/shhh/ Shhh] is being developed for GNUstep by [[Banlu Kemiyatorn]].

=== Python OSD client ===

This is a quickly hacked up client that displays the artist and title of a song every time a new song starts playing, is paused, or is stopped. A lot of the code comes from the original xmms2-shell and the test python client in the XMMS2 source tree. You can download the script from Sham's [http://eleusis.f2o.org/projects/xmms2/ XMMS2 page].

=== XMMS2-AMP ===

This will be a fully featured client that includes a highly configurable skinning engine, with the ability to do transparency. It will still keep the default XMMS skinning 'style'. This client will be designed to be beautiful, yet simple, and incredibly powerful. It will also feature a media library similar to the one that winamp 5 uses, with some added features. [mailto:philipthrasher@gmail.com Contact Philip Thrasher] for more information.

= Web clients =
Clients that provide web interfaces, or provide web services based on data from the XMMS2 daemon.

== XMMS2www ==
Previously on this page as 'Unnamed PHP client'. This project is reported as 'kind of dead at this time'.

More info here: http://evangelion.se/xmms2/

== TwistedXMMS2 ==
A webclient using twisted.web. in bitkeepr 'bk://genesis.xmms.se:5555/twistedxmms2'. Under development by [[Tobias Rundström]]

== XMMS2-Scrobbler ==

XMMS2-Scrobbler is an [http://www.audioscrobbler.com/ AudioScrobbler] client written by [[Tilman Sauerbeck]]. Learn more about it [http://code-monkey.de/projects/xmms2-scrobbler.html over there].

= Other Clients =

=== Bluetooth Client ===

The xmms2_blue client interfaces xmms2d to a Bluetooth enabled phone.  It is still fairly experimental, but basic functionality should work.  The protocol used is described in Ericsson and Sony Ericsson documents.  So most likely the client will only work with phones of those brands.
The sources can be obtained form the ''blue'' branch of [mailto:jlt_xmms2@shamrock.dyndns.org Jens Taprogge]'s xmms2 git tree [http://git.xmms.se/ http://git.xmms.se/].


[[Category: General]]
[[Category: Users]]