== XMMS2 Conference 2010 ==
It's time to hold the first XMMS2con in history! Yay. This page collects some ideas and facts about this conference. Everyone is welcome even if you are not a XMMS2 developer.

== Where and when ==
Where will be in Malmö Sweden. Purple Scout have allowed us to use their offices to host the conference. We have big screen projector, nice beer fridges, lots of sofas and several different types of Rock Band, so it will fit us perfectly!

'''The date will be February 19-21'''

== Program ==
The program is very much what we make it into. Please give suggestions below on activities you would like to see. Here are my ideas:

== Proposed schedule ==
Since we are no stiff guys I suggest some kind of un-conference type of schedule. But to keep it at least a bit coordinated I suggest that we have the following rough schedule:

* Friday (for everyone that is arriving then)
** 16:00-19:00 - Welcome at Purple Scout offices. Beer and hellos.
** 19:00-20:30 - Food somewhere. I will book something when I know how many are joining.
** 21:00-??:?? - Late night activities. What do you guys want to do?
* Saturday
** 10:00-13:00 - Un-conferance technical stuff, coding sprints.
** 13:00-14:00 - Lunch. Either something ordered to the office or we go out somewhere.
** 14:00-18:00 - Technical stuff again, coding sprints.
** 19:00-20:30 - Dinner. Again, I will fix something.
** 21:00-??:?? - Social hang-around at the office, there are rock band etc.
* Sunday
** 10:00-13:00 - Un-conferance technical stuff, coding sprints.
** 13:00-14:00 - Lunch. Either something ordered to the office or we go out somewhere.
** 14:00-18:00 - Nothing scheduled since most people will have to start thinking about departure.

=== Techie stuff ===
* Coding sprints. Let's merge a lot of code
* Work on the official UI
* Work on different mobile clients
* Work flow discussions
* Beginner to XMMS2 client development sessions?

=== Social stuff ===
* Beer tasting
* Nice dinner at some nice Swedish restaurant
* Rock band? (or similar stuff)
* Movie night?
* Tour of Malmö's nightlife.

== Practical stuff ==

=== Getting to Malmö ===
Malmö is very close to the continent. So you might be able to take a train from Netherlands, Germany and countries in north of Europe to Malmö Central Station (Malmö C). Otherwise you can fly into Copenhagen Airport (Kastrup CPH / EKCH), this airport is way bigger, have a lot more flights and actually is easier to reach from Malmö than Malmö Airport (Sturup MMX / ESMS).

http://wikitravel.org/en/Malmö#Get_in

=== Sleeping ===
Some of the developers live around/in Malmö and might be able to offer some beds. Please indicate below. Otherwise we will try to fix beds with the help of Google Money. We will cover Friday to Sunday if you are a official author of XMMS2 (i.e. your name is in the AUTHORS file).

== Participants ==

The I am of course interested table is below:

{| class="wikitable" style="margin: 1em auto 1em auto;"
|+
! Name
! Need place to stay
! Have X number of beds to lend
! Comments
|-
| Tobias Rundström 
| No 
| 0 
| Hooray!
|-
| Daniel Svensson
| No
| 1 (and ~2 floor spots)
| When X2Con is end, power of code merge!
|-
| Tilman Sauerbeck
| Yes
| 0
| \o/
|-
| Florian Ragwitz
| No
| 0
| Staying at Hotel Svensson
|-
| Anders Waldenborg
| No
| 0
| 
|-
| Alex Botero-Lowry
| Yes
| 0
| \o/ Date selected, so I can go to FOSDEM too. :)
|-
| Erik Massop
| Yes
| 0
| 
|-
| Sébastien Cevey
| No*
| 0
| *Can probably stay at a friend's, to be confirmed.
|
|-
| Sebastian Noack
| No
| 0
| Staying at Hotel Svensson, too ;)
|-
| Auke Schrijnen
| Yes
| 0
|
|}