'''NOTE:''' This page is unrelated to the XMMS2 project, this is a borrowed page since we're too lazy to set up a mediawiki for ourselves tonight. :)

= Bugs =

== opengl ==
do we _really_ want to keep this plugin around in xmms anylonger? sure, it's a simple demo plugin, but.. really.. we should nuke it :) This is one of those headaches we shouldn't bother with (nowadays)

bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=2100
bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1855
bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1386
bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=2355

probably this one aswell

bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=2179

:I think that most of the problems with the GL plugin relates to people that have shot themselves in the foot, often by using the wrong version of libGL.  On the other hand, I wouldn't be sad to see the GL plugin go.  It would be nice to pacage it separately if we do though. - havardk

== time bug(s) ==
this ought to be sorted out, which are mad plugins, which are caused by the "old" time bug that's bee around in the cvs since _after_ the release of 1.2.10 (you know the one you fixed the other day)

bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=2275
bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=2153
bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=2075
bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=2297
bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=2351

:I'm quite confident that we don't have a problem with this any more -havardk

== Important ==

bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1079
Multiple tags in ogg files gets deleted, ie title=hello title=korv will be reduced to only title=hello if tag is saved.

bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1874 Possible callback race, verify and fix, or disprove and close

bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1933 Fix .spec and close

bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=2067 '''PATCH''' frame size assumption by xmms (could this be related to bug bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=989?)

bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1541 '''PATCH''' Analyzer stops working

bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1776 INSTALLPREFIX undeclared in config.h.in/config.h

bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1874 Possible double free (race) in mainwin_quit_cb().

== Interesting ==
bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=305 '''PATCH'''
Reads playlist song title entries from .pls files

bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=333 '''PATCH'''
Ignore missing files when skipping backwards. Current behavior is if song a exists, b is missing and c is playing. Press back and xmms jumps to b, finds it missing and jumps forward to c again. Patch alters this to allow the user to skip from c to a by pressing back

* This thing just almost works, buggy wrt to cdaudio files.  Not 1.2.11 material.

bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=909 '''PATCH'''
Uses the xfont in the minimized playlist. Not sure if we should apply this or not, as the minimized playlist has very limited space. However, this might just aswell be up to the user.

bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1389
We save CDDB queries in ~/.xmms/cdinfo instead of "standard" ~/.cddb/[ID]

bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=969 '''PATCH'''
Having title data enabled while streaming through proxy removes headers and as such causes bleeps and blops

bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=893 '''PATCH''' Alters the way we select multiple entries in the playlist. Please test

bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1972 When streaming files we should honour the header for filename instead of the url? I'm torn...

bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=296 '''PATCH''' Seek in streams, olden golden

bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=2194 Allow overriding user agent for http streaming, should be trivial enough, and we already allow something simmilar for the CDDB query

bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1293 GET http request doesn't follow RFC 1945

bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1538 xmms /dev/ hangs :) and play location aswell
bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1720 xmms hangs when adding a fifo (or dir with fifo)

bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1600 Equalizer jumps after pressing apply or ok in preferences under, ... *artistic pause*  vtwm :)

bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1641 Rewinding freeze the visualizations (both alsa and oss on knirchs system) http://bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1541 related?

bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1937 '''PATCH''' Handle SIGINT, SIGTERM

bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1956 '''PATCH''' song_change plugin doesn't update when a stream title changes



=== Possible dupes ===

Equalizer, not applied at start type of bugs:
bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=965, bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=788, bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1896

= Mails =

lists.xmms.org/pipermail/xmms-devel/2005-August/003135.html (whole thread) about ipv6 crud

lists.xmms.org/pipermail/xmms-devel/2005-July/003115.html alter -Q behaviour, looks sane enough

lists.xmms.org/pipermail/xmms-devel/2005-October/003185.html (whole thread)
lists.xmms.org/pipermail/xmms-devel/2005-November/003195.html (continued) improved decoding of URL special characters, relates to [http://bugs.xmms.org/show_bug.cgi?id=366 366]

lists.xmms.org/pipermail/xmms-devel/2006-February/003228.html dueling playlists.. looks interesting, should read this patch

lists.xmms.org/pipermail/xmms-devel/2006-March/003247.html interesting patch about getting status about a bunch of things from the commandline.. look at